UzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirJAqq rqkrGAOr1401rMpqipxooglirFhfujof,rahrXlqlhoqvf

UzgfrjAqq rgfrkqpruzjrvfjrqkrxlhqljrxlhszjpjrxurlqrwqfurxldrsguz
xboqfurlqrpjfupgwugqlfrszxufqjcjpnrrHqvroxhrwqmhrgu,rigcjrgurxsxhrqp
pj-vfjrgurvldjpruzjrujpofrqkruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgwjlfjrglwbvdjd
sguzruzgfrjAqq rqprqlbgljrxursssnivujlajpinqpi


Ugubj:rGAOr1401rMpqipxooglirFhfujof

Xvuzqp:rXlqlhoqvf

PjbjxfjrDxuj:rDjwjoajpr9,r2008r[JAqq r#27468]

Bxlivxij:rJlibgfz


***rFUXPUrQKrUZGFrMPQ.JWUrIVUJLAJPIrJAQQ rGAOr1401rMPQIPXOOGLIrFHFUJOFr***




MpqdvwjdrahrIjpxpdrXpuzvf,rWxpbxrKqvfurxldruzjrQlbglj
DgfupgavujdrMpqqkpjxdglirUjxorxurzuum://sssnmidmnlju









Upxlfwpgajp'frLquj

Qlrmxijr3r"Bjku"rsxfrwzxlijdruqr"Mxijr2"rajwxvfjrqkruzjrj-ujyurkqpoxun
Qlrmxijfr5rxldr8rxrpjigfujpjdrfhoaqbrgfrpjmpjfjlujdrahr^[pjigfujpjd]n




rrrGAOr1401rMpqipxooglirFhfujof

rrrM
rrrMP
rrrMPQrFHFUJOF
rrrMPQIrHFUJOF
rrrMPQIPrFUJOF
rrrMPQIPXrUJOF
rrrMPQIPXOrJOF
rrrMPQIPXOOrOF
rrrMPQIPXOOGrF
rrrMPQIPXOOGL
rrrMPQIPXOOGLI

[Gbbvfupxugql]




_SzjlrwqomxlgjfrqpdjprxlrGAOr1401rDxuxrMpqwjffglirFhfujo,
ojuzqdf-mpqipxooglirfuxkkfrxpjrigcjlruzjrpjfmqlfgagbguhrqkrupxlfbxugli
uzjrpjevgpjojlufrqkroxlxijojlurgluqrkglgfzjdrxmmbgwxugqlfnr1401
MpqipxooglirFhfujofrxpjrzjbmglirwvuruzjrwqfufrqkrijuugliruzjrwqomvujp
gluqrqmjpxugqlrahrfgombgkhglirxldrjymjdgugliruzjrsqp rqkruzjfjrojuzqdf
fuxkkfn_

_Oqdjpl,rzgiz-fmjjdrwqomvujpf,rfvwzrxfruzjr1401,rxpjroxpcjbqvf
jbjwupqlgwrglfupvojluf,ravuruzjhrpjmpjfjlurqlbhrmqpugqlfrqkrdxux
mpqwjffglirfhfujofnrSjbb-ujfujdrmpqipxooglirbxlivxijfrkqprwqoovlgwxugql
sguzrwqomvujpfrovfurxwwqomxlhruzjrfhfujofnrGurgfruzpqvizruzjfjrbxlivxijf
uzxuruzjrwqomvujprgufjbkrgfrvfjdruqrmjpkqporoxlhrqkruzjrujdgqvf
kvlwugqlfruzxuruzjrmpqipxoojprsqvbdrquzjpsgfjrzxcjruqrmjpkqponrXrkjs
oglvujfrqkrwqomvujprugojrglrupxlfbxugliruzjrmpqipxorwxlrajrjevxbruq
oxlh,roxlhrzqvpfrqkrfuxkkrugojrglrspguglirglfupvwugqlfrwqdjdrglruzj
bxlivxijrqkruzjrwqomvujpn_

_Uzjrwqoaglxugqlrqkrxroqdjplrwqomvujprmbvfroqdjplrmpqipxooglirbxlivxijf
gfruzjr jhruqrmpqkguxabjrdxuxrmpqwjffglinrUzgfrapqwzvpjrjymbxglfroqdjpl
GAOrMpqipxooglirBxlivxijfrxldruzjgprfgilgkgwxlwjruqroxlxijojlun_

Mxijr2:rZjpjrxlrqmjpxuqprmqglufruqroxwzgljrbxlivxijrglfupvwugqlfrkqprxrljs
xmmbgwxugqlrajglirijljpxujdrahruzjr1401rfhfujorqlruzjr1403rzgiz-fmjjd
mpglujpnrFuxujojlufrxaqvuruzjrxmmbgwxugqlrszgwzrsjpjrspguujlrahruzj
mpqipxoojprxpjrajglirupxlfbxujdrglujplxbbhruqroxwzglj-wqdjdrbxlivxijn


"=SzxurGfrXr1401rMpqipxo?="

Xrmpqipxorgfrxrfjpgjfrqkrglfupvwugqlfruzxurdgpjwuruzjr1401rxfrgurfqbcjf
xlrxmmbgwxugqln


"=SzxurGfrXrFuqpjdrMpqipxorOxwzglj?="

Xrfuqpjdrmpqipxoroxwzgljrgfrqljrszgwzrfuqpjfrgufrqslrglfupvwugqlfrgl
oxiljugwrkqporxldrgfrwxmxabjrqkrxwuglirqlruzqfjrglfupvwugqlfruqrwqombjuj
uzjrxmmbgwxugqlrxffgiljdnrUzjr1401rvfjfrxrfuqpjdrmpqipxon


"=SzxurXpjr1401rMpqipxooglirFhfujof?="

Uzjpjrxpjrusqruhmjf:r(1)rFhfujofruzxurmpqcgdjruzjrmpqipxoojprsguzrx
fgombgkgjdrcqwxavbxphrqkrfuxujojlufruqrvfjrglrspguglirmpqipxof,rxldr(2)
Mpj-spguujlrmpqipxof,rszgwzrux jrwxpjrqkroxlhrqkruzjrjcjphdxhrqmjpxugqlf
qkruzjr1401n


=Szxur1401rMpqipxooglirFhfujofrOjxlrUqrOxlxijojlu:=

GLWPJXFJDrMPQIPXOOGLIrJKKGWGJLWH

Mpqipxoojpfrwxlrwqlwjlupxujrqlruzjrxmmbgwxugqlrxldrpjfvbufrpxuzjpruzxl
qlrxrovbuguvdjrqkr"aqq  jjmgli"rkvlwugqlf,rfvwzrxfr jjmglirupxw rqk
fuqpxijrbqwxugqlfn

KXFUJPrUPXLFBXUGQLrQKrOXLXIJOJLUrPJEVGPJOJLUFrGLUQrVFXABJrPJFVBUF

Fgombgkgjdrmpqipxooglirpqvugljfrxbbqsrmpqipxoojpfruqrspgujroqpj
glfupvwugqlfrglrbjffrugojn

FZQPUJPrUPXGLGLIrMJPGQDF

Mpqipxoojpfrvfjrxrbxlivxijroqpjrkxogbgxpruqruzjorpxuzjpruzxlrzxcgliruq
bjxplrdjuxgbjdroxwzgljrwqdjfn

PJDVWJDrMPQIPXOOGLIrWQFUF

Oxlhrmpj-spguujlrmpqipxofrxpjrfvmmbgjdrahrGAO,rjbgoglxuglirljwjffguhrqk
wvfuqojpf'rfuxkkfrspgugliruzjgprqsln

OQPJrXCXGBXABJr1401rUGOJ

Mpj-spguujlrmpqipxofrzxcjrxbpjxdhrajjlrujfujdrahrGAO,rpjdvwglirujdgqvf
wzjw glirqmjpxugqlfrqlruzjrwqomvujpn

JXFGJPrUQrVLDJPFUXLDrMPQIPXOF

Mpqipxofrxpjrspguujlrglrfhoaqbgwrqprxmmbgwxugql-qpgjlujdrkqporglfujxdrqk
wqomvujprbxlivxijnrUzgfrjlxabjfroxlxijojluruqrwqoovlgwxujroqpjrjxfgbh
sguzruzjrmpqipxooglirfuxkkn

KXFUJPrPJMQPUFrQLrQMJPXUGQLF

Pqvugljfrfvwzrxfruzqfjrdjfgiljdrkqprpjmqpurspguglirmjpogurkxfujp
upxlfbxugqlrqkroxlxijojlurpjevgpjojlufrgluqrvfxabjrglkqpoxugqln




GAOrMpqipxooglirFhfujof:

_FhoaqbgwrMpqipxooglirFhfujof_

Uzjfjrfhfujofrmjpogurmpqipxofruqrajrspguujlrvfglirojxlglikvbrlxojf
(fhoaqbf)rpxuzjpruzxlrxwuvxbroxwzgljrbxlivxijn

_Xvuqwqdjp_

UzgfrgfrxlrxdcxlwjdrfhoaqbgwrmpqipxooglirfhfujonrGurxbbqsfrijljpxugqlrqk
ovbugmbjroxwzgljrglfupvwugqlfrkpqorqljrfqvpwjrfuxujojlu,rkpjj-kqpo
wqdgli,rxldrxlrxvuqoxugwrxffjoabhrmpqwjffruzpqvizroxiljugwruxmjn

_WQAQB_

WQAQBrgfrxrmpqabjo-qpgjlujdrmpqipxooglirbxlivxijrkqprwqoojpwgxb
xmmbgwxugqlfn[X]rWQAQBrmjpogufrxrmpqipxoojpruqrvfjrbxlivxijraxfjdrql
Jlibgfzrsqpdfrxldrmzpxfjfrglrdjfwpgaglirxlrxmmbgwxugqln

_Glmvu/QvumvurWqlupqbrFhfujo_

Uzgfrfhfujormpqcgdjfruzjrmpqipxoojprsguzrxrmxw xijdrojxlfrqk
xwwqombgfzglirglmvurxldrqvumvurpjevgpjojlufn

_VugbguhrMpqipxof_

Uzjfjrxpjrmpj-spguujlrglfupvwugqlfruqrmjpkqporoxlhrqkruzjrjcjphdxh
qmjpxugqlfrqkrxlrglfuxbbxugqln

_Fvapqvugljf_

Uzjfjrxpjrpqvugljfrkqprovbugmbgwxugql,rdgcgfgql,rdqtjlfrwqlcjpfgql,rxld
mpqipxorjppqprdjujwugqlrxgdfn

_UxmjrVugbgugjf_

Uzjfjrxpjrijljpxbgtjdrglfupvwugqlf,rmxpugwvbxpbhrvfjkvbruqr1401
wvfuqojpfrszqrxbfqrvfjrbxpijprdxuxrmpqwjffglirfhfujofnrUzjhrkxwgbguxuj
uzjrupxlfkjprqkrdxuxrajusjjlrGAOrwxpdf,roxiljugwruxmjf,rxldrmpglujpfn
Uzjhrxbfqrmpqcgdjrkqprfqojr1401rmpqwjffglirszgbjruzjrupxlfkjprqkrdxuxrgf
ux glirmbxwjn

_UxmjrFqpurMpqipxof_

Dxuxrwxlrajrfqpujdrxldrwbxffgkgjdrxurzgizrfmjjdrkqprkvpuzjprmpqwjffgli
ahrvfjrqkruzjfjrijljpxbgtjdrfqpuglirpqvugljfn

_PjmqpurMpqipxorIjljpxuqp_

Uzjrmpqipxoojprvfjfrfgombgkgjd,rdjfwpgmugcjrbxlivxijrsguzrszgwzrzjrgf
xbpjxdhrkxogbgxpruqrqauxglrpjmqpufrfsgkubhrxldrjkkgwgjlubhn

KQPUPXLr(_Wqlupxwugqlrqk_rKQP_ovbx_rUPXL_fbxuqp_)

Jligljjpfrxldroxuzjoxugwgxlfrfuxujrmpqabjofrglrkxogbgxprxbijapxgw
bxlivxijrkqprfqbvugqlrahruzjrwqomvujpn

PXOXW^[pjigfujpjd]r_KgbjrQpixlgtxugql_

Pqvugljfrxpjrfvmmbgjdrkqprfgombgkhglirqpixlgtxugqlrqkrpjwqpdfrkqp
fuqpxijrglruzjr1401rPxldqorXwwjffrKgbjn

=Zjpj'frzqsrqljrqkruzjr1401rmpqipxooglirfhfujof--PjmqpurMpqipxo
Ijljpxuqp--sqp fruqrglwpjxfjrmpqipxooglirjkkgwgjlwh=

1401rwqomvujpfrmpqdvwjrgomqpuxlurpjmqpufrkqproxlxijojlurglrpjwqpdrugoj
ajwxvfjrqkruzjgprqvufuxldglirmpqwjffglirxldrmpgluglirxagbgugjfnrGl
xddgugqlruqruzgfrpxmgdroxwzgljrmpqwjffglirqkr_glmvurdxux_rvfjdrgl
pjmqpuf,rfugbbroqpjrfmjjdrgfrxwzgjcjdrahruzjrpxmgdrmpjmxpxugqlrqk
_mpqipxof_ruqrmpqdvwjruzjrpjmqpufnrUzgfrgfrmqffgabjrajwxvfjrqkruzjrGAO
PjmqpurMpqipxorIjljpxuqp,rxrvlgevjrfhfujorszgwzrmjpogufrmpqipxofruqraj
wpjxujdrsguzrxroglgovorqkrugojrxldrjkkqpun

UzgfrjyxombjrgbbvfupxujfrzqsruzjrPjmqpurMpqipxorIjljpxuqprfgombgkgjfruzj
mpjmxpxugqlrqkrqljrmxpurqkrxlrJymjlfjrDgfupgavugqlrPjmqpur(UzjrOx.qp
UquxbrBglj):

[Gbbvfupxugql]

SguzqvuruzjrPjmqpurMpqipxorIjljpxuqp,ruzjrmpqipxoruqrijuruzjrOx.qprUquxb
Bgljrsqvbdrajrspguujlrqvurglrdjuxgb,rfujmrahrfujm:

[Gbbvfupxugql]

AvursguzruzjrPjmqpurMpqipxorIjljpxuqp,rxbbruzjrmpqipxoojprzxfruqrspguj
xpjruzjfjrusqrfuxujojluf:

[Gbbvfupxugql]

Gu'fr.vfurxfrjxfhruqrspgujruzjrfuxujojlufruqrijljpxujruzjrpjfurqkruzj
pjmqpu!rUzjr1401rgufjbkrdqjfruzjrsqp rqkrwqlcjpugliruzjrmpqipxoojpf'
fuxujojlufrgluqruzjrdjuxgbjdrglfupvwugqlfnrUzjrPjmqpurMpqipxorIjljpxuqp
gfrxlrjyxombjrqkrszxurGAOrMpqipxooglirFhfujofrwxlrxwwqombgfzn

SguzrGAOrhqvrwxlrajrwjpuxglrqkruquxbrfhfujofrfvmmqpurkqproxygovo
mpqkguxagbguhn




GAO
rr^[pjigfujpjd]


FuxldfrKqprFjpcgwj

Fjpcgwjruzxurajiglfrbqlirajkqpjruzjrdjbgcjphrqkrxrwqomvujprnnnrxld
wqluglvjfrglrdjmuzrbqlirxkujpnrFjpcgwjruzxurzxfrajjlr_mpqcjl_rahrhjxpfrqk
dxuxrmpqwjffglirjymjpgjlwjn


LjsrGAOrFjpcgwjfrglwbvdj:

_MpqipxoojdrXmmbgwxugqlfrBgapxph_

Mpj-ujfujdrwqomvujprmpqipxofrdjfgiljdruqrzxldbjrcxpgqvfrox.qprdxux
mpqwjffglirkvlwugqlfrwqooqlruqrkgpofrsguzglrxrfmjwgkgwrgldvfuphn

_MpqipxooglirFhfujofrFvmmqpu_

Uqr jjmrwvfuqojpfrvm-uq-dxujrqlruzjrxcxgbxagbguhrxldrvfjrqkrxbbrljs
mpqipxooglirfhfujofn

UqrxffgfuruzjrGAOrmpqipxooglirfuxkkrglrpjkbjwuglirwvfuqojprpjevgpjojluf
glruzjrfmjwgkgwxugqlrqkrljsrmpqipxooglirfhfujofn


QuzjprfjpcgwjfrxcxgbxabjruqrjcjphrGAOrwvfuqojp:

_MpqipxorBgapxph_

Xrbgapxphrqkr1401rmpqipxofrsgbbrajrjfuxabgfzjdruqrxgdrxbbr1401rwvfuqojpf
glrfqbcglirfmjwgkgwrxmmbgwxugqlf,rfwgjlugkgwrxfrsjbbrxfrwqoojpwgxbn
Uzjfjrsgbbrglwbvdjrmpqipxofrspguujlrahrwvfuqojpfrxldrmpqipxofrspguujlrah
GAOn

_FwzqqbfrxldrFjoglxpf_

Jyjwvugcjrfwzqqbfrkqproxlxijojlurmjpfqlljbn

Mpqipxooglirfwzqqbfrkqprojuzqdfrmjpfqlljbn

Gldvfuphrfjoglxpfrszjpjrwvfuqojpfrojjuruqrdgfwvffrfva.jwufrqkrwqooql
glujpjfun

_ApxlwzrQkkgwjf_

Oqpjruzxlr200rapxlwzrqkkgwjfrfjpcjrwvfuqojprljjdfrmpqomubhrxld
jkkgwgjlubhn

_FxbjfrxldrFhfujofrPjmpjfjluxugcjf_

Jymjpgjlwjd,rzgizbhrupxgljdrgldgcgdvxbfrsqp rsguzrwvfuqojpfrglrxmmbhgli
GAOrojuzqdfruqruzjgprpjevgpjojlufn

Uzjfjrxpjr.vfurxrkjsrqkruzjroxlhrGAOrfjpcgwjfnrHqvprGAOrFxbjf
Pjmpjfjluxugcjrsgbbrajrmbjxfjdruqrdgfwvffrxbbrqkruzjorsguzrhqvn


GlujplxugqlxbrAvfgljffrOxwzgljfrWqpmqpxugqlrDxuxrMpqwjffglirDgcgfgql,
112rJxfurMqfurPqxdrSzgujrMbxglf,rLjsrHqp 

[KqqulqujrX:rWQAQBrfmjwgkgwxugqlfrsjpjrdjcjbqmjdrahruzjrWqlkjpjlwjrql
DxuxrFhfujofrBxlivxijf,rxrcqbvluxphrwqqmjpxugcjrjkkqpurqkrvfjpf,rxld
oxlvkxwuvpjpfrqkrdxuxrmpqwjffglirfhfujofn]





JldrqkrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi'frGAOr1401rMpqipxooglirFhfujof,rahrXlqlhoqvf

***rJLDrQKrUZGFrMPQ.JWUrIVUJLAJPIrJAQQ rGAOr1401rMPQIPXOOGLIrFHFUJOFr***

*****rUzgfrkgbjrfzqvbdrajrlxojdr27468nuyurqpr27468ntgmr*****
Uzgfrxldrxbbrxffqwgxujdrkgbjfrqkrcxpgqvfrkqpoxufrsgbbrajrkqvldrgl:
rrrrrrrrzuum://sssnivujlajpinqpi/2/7/4/6/27468/

MpqdvwjdrahrIjpxpdrXpuzvf,rWxpbxrKqvfurxldruzjrQlbglj
DgfupgavujdrMpqqkpjxdglirUjxorxurzuum://sssnmidmnlju


Vmdxujdrjdgugqlfrsgbbrpjmbxwjruzjrmpjcgqvfrqlj--uzjrqbdrjdgugqlf
sgbbrajrpjlxojdn

Wpjxugliruzjrsqp frkpqormvabgwrdqoxglrmpglurjdgugqlfrojxlfruzxurlq
qljrqslfrxrVlgujdrFuxujfrwqmhpgizurglruzjfjrsqp f,rfqruzjrKqvldxugql
(xldrhqv!)rwxlrwqmhrxldrdgfupgavujrgurglruzjrVlgujdrFuxujfrsguzqvu
mjpogffgqlrxldrsguzqvurmxhglirwqmhpgizurpqhxbugjfnrrFmjwgxbrpvbjf,
fjurkqpuzrglruzjrIjljpxbrUjpofrqkrVfjrmxpurqkruzgfrbgwjlfj,rxmmbhruq
wqmhglirxldrdgfupgavuglirMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp fruq
mpqujwuruzjrMPQ.JWUrIVUJLAJPI-uorwqlwjmurxldrupxdjoxp nrrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpirgfrxrpjigfujpjdrupxdjoxp ,rxldroxhrlqurajrvfjdrgkrhqv
wzxpijrkqpruzjrjAqq f,rvlbjffrhqvrpjwjgcjrfmjwgkgwrmjpogffgqlnrrGkrhqv
dqrlqurwzxpijrxlhuzglirkqprwqmgjfrqkruzgfrjAqq ,rwqombhglirsguzruzj
pvbjfrgfrcjphrjxfhnrrHqvroxhrvfjruzgfrjAqq rkqprljxpbhrxlhrmvpmqfj
fvwzrxfrwpjxugqlrqkrdjpgcxugcjrsqp f,rpjmqpuf,rmjpkqpoxlwjfrxld
pjfjxpwznrrUzjhroxhrajroqdgkgjdrxldrmpglujdrxldrigcjlrxsxh--hqvroxhrdq
mpxwugwxbbhrXLHUZGLIrsguzrmvabgwrdqoxglrjAqq fnrrPjdgfupgavugqlrgf
fva.jwuruqruzjrupxdjoxp rbgwjlfj,rjfmjwgxbbhrwqoojpwgxb
pjdgfupgavugqln



***rFUXPU:rKVBBrBGWJLFJr***

UZJrKVBBrMPQ.JWUrIVUJLAJPIrBGWJLFJ
MBJXFJrPJXDrUZGFrAJKQPJrHQVrDGFUPGAVUJrQPrVFJrUZGFrSQP 

UqrmpqujwuruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorogffgqlrqkrmpqoqugliruzjrkpjj
dgfupgavugqlrqkrjbjwupqlgwrsqp f,rahrvfglirqprdgfupgavugliruzgfrsqp 
(qprxlhrquzjprsqp rxffqwgxujdrglrxlhrsxhrsguzruzjrmzpxfjr"Mpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi"),rhqvrxipjjruqrwqombhrsguzrxbbruzjrujpofrqkruzjrKvbbrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorBgwjlfjr(xcxgbxabjrsguzruzgfrkgbjrqprqlbgljrxu
zuum://ivujlajpinqpi/bgwjlfj)n


Fjwugqlr1nrrIjljpxbrUjpofrqkrVfjrxldrPjdgfupgavuglirMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
jbjwupqlgwrsqp f

1nXnrrAhrpjxdglirqprvfglirxlhrmxpurqkruzgfrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
jbjwupqlgwrsqp ,rhqvrgldgwxujruzxurhqvrzxcjrpjxd,rvldjpfuxld,rxipjjruq
xldrxwwjmurxbbruzjrujpofrqkruzgfrbgwjlfjrxldrglujbbjwuvxbrmpqmjpuh
(upxdjoxp /wqmhpgizu)rxipjjojlunrrGkrhqvrdqrlqurxipjjruqrxagdjrahrxbb
uzjrujpofrqkruzgfrxipjjojlu,rhqvrovfurwjxfjrvfglirxldrpjuvplrqprdjfupqh
xbbrwqmgjfrqkrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp frglrhqvprmqffjffgqln
GkrhqvrmxgdrxrkjjrkqprqauxglglirxrwqmhrqkrqprxwwjffruqrxrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp rxldrhqvrdqrlqurxipjjruqrajraqvldrahruzj
ujpofrqkruzgfrxipjjojlu,rhqvroxhrqauxglrxrpjkvldrkpqoruzjrmjpfqlrqp
jluguhruqrszqorhqvrmxgdruzjrkjjrxfrfjurkqpuzrglrmxpxipxmzr1nJn8n

1nAnrr"Mpq.jwurIvujlajpi"rgfrxrpjigfujpjdrupxdjoxp nrrGuroxhrqlbhraj
vfjdrqlrqprxffqwgxujdrglrxlhrsxhrsguzrxlrjbjwupqlgwrsqp rahrmjqmbjrszq
xipjjruqrajraqvldrahruzjrujpofrqkruzgfrxipjjojlunrrUzjpjrxpjrxrkjs
uzglifruzxurhqvrwxlrdqrsguzroqfurMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp f
jcjlrsguzqvurwqombhglirsguzruzjrkvbbrujpofrqkruzgfrxipjjojlunrrFjj
mxpxipxmzr1nWrajbqsnrrUzjpjrxpjrxrbqurqkruzglifrhqvrwxlrdqrsguzrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp frgkrhqvrkqbbqsruzjrujpofrqkruzgfrxipjjojlu
xldrzjbmrmpjfjpcjrkpjjrkvuvpjrxwwjffruqrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgw
sqp fnrrFjjrmxpxipxmzr1nJrajbqsn

1nWnrrUzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugqlr("uzjrKqvldxugql"
qprMIBXK),rqslfrxrwqomgbxugqlrwqmhpgizurglruzjrwqbbjwugqlrqkrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp fnrrLjxpbhrxbbruzjrgldgcgdvxbrsqp frglruzj
wqbbjwugqlrxpjrglruzjrmvabgwrdqoxglrglruzjrVlgujdrFuxujfnrrGkrxl
gldgcgdvxbrsqp rgfrglruzjrmvabgwrdqoxglrglruzjrVlgujdrFuxujfrxldrhqvrxpj
bqwxujdrglruzjrVlgujdrFuxujf,rsjrdqrlqurwbxgorxrpgizuruqrmpjcjlurhqvrkpqo
wqmhgli,rdgfupgavugli,rmjpkqpogli,rdgfmbxhglirqprwpjxuglirdjpgcxugcj
sqp fraxfjdrqlruzjrsqp rxfrbqlirxfrxbbrpjkjpjlwjfruqrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi
xpjrpjoqcjdnrrQkrwqvpfj,rsjrzqmjruzxurhqvrsgbbrfvmmqpuruzjrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorogffgqlrqkrmpqoquglirkpjjrxwwjffruqrjbjwupqlgwrsqp frah
kpjjbhrfzxpglirMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsqp frglrwqombgxlwjrsguzruzjrujpofrqk
uzgfrxipjjojlurkqpr jjmgliruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorlxojrxffqwgxujdrsguz
uzjrsqp nrrHqvrwxlrjxfgbhrwqombhrsguzruzjrujpofrqkruzgfrxipjjojlurah
 jjmgliruzgfrsqp rglruzjrfxojrkqpoxursguzrgufrxuuxwzjdrkvbbrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorBgwjlfjrszjlrhqvrfzxpjrgursguzqvurwzxpijrsguzrquzjpfn

1nDnrrUzjrwqmhpgizurbxsfrqkruzjrmbxwjrszjpjrhqvrxpjrbqwxujdrxbfqriqcjpl
szxurhqvrwxlrdqrsguzruzgfrsqp nrrWqmhpgizurbxsfrglroqfurwqvlupgjfrxpjrgl
xrwqlfuxlurfuxujrqkrwzxlijnrrGkrhqvrxpjrqvufgdjruzjrVlgujdrFuxujf,rwzjw 
uzjrbxsfrqkrhqvprwqvluphrglrxddgugqlruqruzjrujpofrqkruzgfrxipjjojlu
ajkqpjrdqslbqxdgli,rwqmhgli,rdgfmbxhgli,rmjpkqpogli,rdgfupgavuglirqp
wpjxuglirdjpgcxugcjrsqp fraxfjdrqlruzgfrsqp rqprxlhrquzjprMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorsqp nrrUzjrKqvldxugqlrox jfrlqrpjmpjfjluxugqlfrwqlwjplgli
uzjrwqmhpgizurfuxuvfrqkrxlhrsqp rglrxlhrwqvluphrqvufgdjruzjrVlgujd
Fuxujfn

1nJnrrVlbjffrhqvrzxcjrpjoqcjdrxbbrpjkjpjlwjfruqrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi:

1nJn1nrrUzjrkqbbqsglirfjlujlwj,rsguzrxwugcjrbgl fruq,rqprquzjprgoojdgxuj
xwwjffruq,ruzjrkvbbrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorBgwjlfjrovfurxmmjxprmpqogljlubh
szjljcjprxlhrwqmhrqkrxrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsqp r(xlhrsqp rqlrszgwzruzj
mzpxfjr"Mpq.jwurIvujlajpi"rxmmjxpf,rqprsguzrszgwzruzjrmzpxfjr"Mpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi"rgfrxffqwgxujd)rgfrxwwjffjd,rdgfmbxhjd,rmjpkqpojd,rcgjsjd,
wqmgjdrqprdgfupgavujd:

UzgfrjAqq rgfrkqpruzjrvfjrqkrxlhqljrxlhszjpjrxurlqrwqfurxldrsguz
xboqfurlqrpjfupgwugqlfrszxufqjcjpnrrHqvroxhrwqmhrgu,rigcjrgurxsxhrqp
pj-vfjrgurvldjpruzjrujpofrqkruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgwjlfjrglwbvdjd
sguzruzgfrjAqq rqprqlbgljrxursssnivujlajpinqpi

1nJn2nrrGkrxlrgldgcgdvxbrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp rgfrdjpgcjd
kpqoruzjrmvabgwrdqoxglr(dqjfrlqurwqluxglrxrlqugwjrgldgwxugliruzxurgurgf
mqfujdrsguzrmjpogffgqlrqkruzjrwqmhpgizurzqbdjp),ruzjrsqp rwxlrajrwqmgjd
xldrdgfupgavujdruqrxlhqljrglruzjrVlgujdrFuxujfrsguzqvurmxhglirxlhrkjjf
qprwzxpijfnrrGkrhqvrxpjrpjdgfupgavuglirqprmpqcgdglirxwwjffruqrxrsqp 
sguzruzjrmzpxfjr"Mpq.jwurIvujlajpi"rxffqwgxujdrsguzrqprxmmjxpglirqlruzj
sqp ,rhqvrovfurwqombhrjguzjprsguzruzjrpjevgpjojlufrqkrmxpxipxmzfr1nJn1
uzpqvizr1nJn7rqprqauxglrmjpogffgqlrkqpruzjrvfjrqkruzjrsqp rxldruzj
Mpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorupxdjoxp rxfrfjurkqpuzrglrmxpxipxmzfr1nJn8rqp
1nJn9n

1nJn3nrrGkrxlrgldgcgdvxbrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp rgfrmqfujd
sguzruzjrmjpogffgqlrqkruzjrwqmhpgizurzqbdjp,rhqvprvfjrxldrdgfupgavugql
ovfurwqombhrsguzraquzrmxpxipxmzfr1nJn1ruzpqvizr1nJn7rxldrxlhrxddgugqlxb
ujpofrgomqfjdrahruzjrwqmhpgizurzqbdjpnrrXddgugqlxbrujpofrsgbbrajrbgl jd
uqruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorBgwjlfjrkqprxbbrsqp frmqfujdrsguzruzj
mjpogffgqlrqkruzjrwqmhpgizurzqbdjprkqvldrxuruzjrajigllglirqkruzgfrsqp n

1nJn4nrrDqrlqurvlbgl rqprdjuxwzrqprpjoqcjruzjrkvbbrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
Bgwjlfjrujpofrkpqoruzgfrsqp ,rqprxlhrkgbjfrwqluxglglirxrmxpurqkruzgf
sqp rqprxlhrquzjprsqp rxffqwgxujdrsguzrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uon

1nJn5nrrDqrlqurwqmh,rdgfmbxh,rmjpkqpo,rdgfupgavujrqprpjdgfupgavujruzgf
jbjwupqlgwrsqp ,rqprxlhrmxpurqkruzgfrjbjwupqlgwrsqp ,rsguzqvu
mpqogljlubhrdgfmbxhgliruzjrfjlujlwjrfjurkqpuzrglrmxpxipxmzr1nJn1rsguz
xwugcjrbgl frqprgoojdgxujrxwwjffruqruzjrkvbbrujpofrqkruzjrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorBgwjlfjn

1nJn6nrrHqvroxhrwqlcjpuruqrxldrdgfupgavujruzgfrsqp rglrxlhraglxph,
wqompjffjd,roxp jdrvm,rlqlmpqmpgjuxphrqprmpqmpgjuxphrkqpo,rglwbvdglirxlh
sqpdrmpqwjffglirqprzhmjpujyurkqponrrZqsjcjp,rgkrhqvrmpqcgdjrxwwjffruqrqp
dgfupgavujrwqmgjfrqkrxrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsqp rglrxrkqpoxurquzjpruzxl
"MbxglrCxlgbbxrXFWGG"rqprquzjprkqpoxurvfjdrglruzjrqkkgwgxbrcjpfgql
mqfujdrqlruzjrqkkgwgxbrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsjarfgujr(sssnivujlajpinqpi),
hqvrovfu,rxurlqrxddgugqlxbrwqfu,rkjjrqprjymjlfjruqruzjrvfjp,rmpqcgdjrx
wqmh,rxrojxlfrqkrjymqpuglirxrwqmh,rqprxrojxlfrqkrqauxglglirxrwqmhrvmql
pjevjfu,rqkruzjrsqp rglrgufrqpgiglxbr"MbxglrCxlgbbxrXFWGG"rqprquzjp
kqponrrXlhrxbujplxujrkqpoxurovfurglwbvdjruzjrkvbbrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
Bgwjlfjrxfrfmjwgkgjdrglrmxpxipxmzr1nJn1n

1nJn7nrrDqrlqurwzxpijrxrkjjrkqprxwwjffruq,rcgjsgli,rdgfmbxhgli,
mjpkqpogli,rwqmhglirqprdgfupgavuglirxlhrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsqp f
vlbjffrhqvrwqombhrsguzrmxpxipxmzr1nJn8rqpr1nJn9n

1nJn8nrrHqvroxhrwzxpijrxrpjxfqlxabjrkjjrkqprwqmgjfrqkrqprmpqcgdgli
xwwjffruqrqprdgfupgavuglirMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp frmpqcgdjd
uzxu

-rHqvrmxhrxrpqhxbuhrkjjrqkr20%rqkruzjripqffrmpqkgufrhqvrdjpgcjrkpqo
rrrrruzjrvfjrqkrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsqp frwxbwvbxujdrvfgliruzjrojuzqd
rrrrrhqvrxbpjxdhrvfjruqrwxbwvbxujrhqvprxmmbgwxabjruxyjfnrrUzjrkjjrgf
rrrrrqsjdruqruzjrqsljprqkruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorupxdjoxp ,ravurzj
rrrrrzxfrxipjjdruqrdqlxujrpqhxbugjfrvldjpruzgfrmxpxipxmzruqruzj
rrrrrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugqlnrrPqhxbuhrmxhojluf
rrrrrovfurajrmxgdrsguzglr60rdxhfrkqbbqsglirjxwzrdxujrqlrszgwzrhqv
rrrrrmpjmxpjr(qprxpjrbjixbbhrpjevgpjdruqrmpjmxpj)rhqvprmjpgqdgwruxy
rrrrrpjuvplfnrrPqhxbuhrmxhojlufrfzqvbdrajrwbjxpbhroxp jdrxfrfvwzrxld
rrrrrfjluruqruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugqlrxuruzj
rrrrrxddpjffrfmjwgkgjdrglrFjwugqlr4,r"Glkqpoxugqlrxaqvurdqlxugqlfruq
rrrrruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugqln"

-rHqvrmpqcgdjrxrkvbbrpjkvldrqkrxlhroqljhrmxgdrahrxrvfjprszqrlqugkgjf
rrrrrhqvrglrspguglir(qprahrj-oxgb)rsguzglr30rdxhfrqkrpjwjgmuruzxurf/zj
rrrrrdqjfrlqurxipjjruqruzjrujpofrqkruzjrkvbbrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
rrrrrBgwjlfjnrrHqvrovfurpjevgpjrfvwzrxrvfjpruqrpjuvplrqp
rrrrrdjfupqhrxbbrwqmgjfrqkruzjrsqp frmqffjffjdrglrxrmzhfgwxbrojdgvo
rrrrrxldrdgfwqluglvjrxbbrvfjrqkrxldrxbbrxwwjffruqrquzjprwqmgjfrqk
rrrrrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsqp fn

-rHqvrmpqcgdj,rglrxwwqpdxlwjrsguzrmxpxipxmzr1nKn3,rxrkvbbrpjkvldrqkrxlh
rrrrroqljhrmxgdrkqprxrsqp rqprxrpjmbxwjojlurwqmh,rgkrxrdjkjwurglruzj
rrrrrjbjwupqlgwrsqp rgfrdgfwqcjpjdrxldrpjmqpujdruqrhqvrsguzglr90rdxhf
rrrrrqkrpjwjgmurqkruzjrsqp n

-rHqvrwqombhrsguzrxbbrquzjprujpofrqkruzgfrxipjjojlurkqprkpjj
rrrrrdgfupgavugqlrqkrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsqp fn

1nJn9nrrGkrhqvrsgfzruqrwzxpijrxrkjjrqprdgfupgavujrxrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
jbjwupqlgwrsqp rqpripqvmrqkrsqp frqlrdgkkjpjlurujpofruzxlrxpjrfju
kqpuzrglruzgfrxipjjojlu,rhqvrovfurqauxglrmjpogffgqlrglrspguglirkpqo
aquzruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugqlrxldrOgwzxjb
Zxpu,ruzjrqsljprqkruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorupxdjoxp nrrWqluxwuruzj
KqvldxugqlrxfrfjurkqpuzrglrFjwugqlr3rajbqsn

1nKn

1nKn1nrrMpq.jwurIvujlajpircqbvlujjpfrxldrjombqhjjfrjymjldrwqlfgdjpxabj
jkkqpuruqrgdjlugkh,rdqrwqmhpgizurpjfjxpwzrql,rupxlfwpgajrxldrmpqqkpjxd
mvabgwrdqoxglrsqp frglrwpjxugliruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
wqbbjwugqlnrrDjfmgujruzjfjrjkkqpuf,rMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgw
sqp f,rxldruzjrojdgvorqlrszgwzruzjhroxhrajrfuqpjd,roxhrwqluxgl
"Djkjwuf,"rfvwzrxf,ravurlqurbgogujdruq,rglwqombjuj,rglxwwvpxujrqp
wqppvmurdxux,rupxlfwpgmugqlrjppqpf,rxrwqmhpgizurqprquzjprglujbbjwuvxb
mpqmjpuhrglkpglijojlu,rxrdjkjwugcjrqprdxoxijdrdgf rqprquzjprojdgvo,rx
wqomvujprcgpvf,rqprwqomvujprwqdjfruzxurdxoxijrqprwxllqurajrpjxdrah
hqvprjevgmojlun

1nKn2nrrBGOGUJDrSXPPXLUH,rDGFWBXGOJPrQKrDXOXIJFr-rJywjmurkqpruzjr"Pgizu
qkrPjmbxwjojlurqprPjkvld"rdjfwpgajdrglrmxpxipxmzr1nKn3,ruzjrMpq.jwu
IvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugql,ruzjrqsljprqkruzjrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorupxdjoxp ,rxldrxlhrquzjprmxpuhrdgfupgavuglirxrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp rvldjpruzgfrxipjjojlu,rdgfwbxgorxbb
bgxagbguhruqrhqvrkqprdxoxijf,rwqfufrxldrjymjlfjf,rglwbvdglirbjixb
kjjfnrrHQVrXIPJJrUZXUrHQVrZXCJrLQrPJOJDGJFrKQPrLJIBGIJLWJ,rFUPGWU
BGXAGBGUH,rAPJXWZrQKrSXPPXLUHrQPrAPJXWZrQKrWQLUPXWUrJYWJMUrUZQFJ
MPQCGDJDrGLrMXPXIPXMZrK3nrrHQVrXIPJJrUZXUrUZJrKQVLDXUGQL,rUZJ
UPXDJOXP rQSLJP,rXLDrXLHrDGFUPGAVUQPrVLDJPrUZGFrXIPJJOJLUrSGBBrLQUrAJ
BGXABJrUQrHQVrKQPrXWUVXB,rDGPJWU,rGLDGPJWU,rWQLFJEVJLUGXB,rMVLGUGCJrQP
GLWGDJLUXBrDXOXIJFrJCJLrGKrHQVrIGCJrLQUGWJrQKrUZJrMQFFGAGBGUHrQKrFVWZ
DXOXIJn

1nKn3nrrBGOGUJDrPGIZUrQKrPJMBXWJOJLUrQPrPJKVLDr-rGkrhqvrdgfwqcjprx
djkjwurglruzgfrjbjwupqlgwrsqp rsguzglr90rdxhfrqkrpjwjgcglirgu,rhqvrwxl
pjwjgcjrxrpjkvldrqkruzjroqljhr(gkrxlh)rhqvrmxgdrkqprgurahrfjldglirx
spguujlrjymbxlxugqlruqruzjrmjpfqlrhqvrpjwjgcjdruzjrsqp rkpqonrrGkrhqv
pjwjgcjdruzjrsqp rqlrxrmzhfgwxbrojdgvo,rhqvrovfurpjuvplruzjrojdgvorsguz
hqvprspguujlrjymbxlxugqlnrrUzjrmjpfqlrqprjluguhruzxurmpqcgdjdrhqvrsguz
uzjrdjkjwugcjrsqp roxhrjbjwuruqrmpqcgdjrxrpjmbxwjojlurwqmhrglrbgjvrqkrx
pjkvldnrrGkrhqvrpjwjgcjdruzjrsqp rjbjwupqlgwxbbh,ruzjrmjpfqlrqprjluguh
mpqcgdglirguruqrhqvroxhrwzqqfjruqrigcjrhqvrxrfjwqldrqmmqpuvlguhruq
pjwjgcjruzjrsqp rjbjwupqlgwxbbhrglrbgjvrqkrxrpjkvldnrrGkruzjrfjwqldrwqmh
gfrxbfqrdjkjwugcj,rhqvroxhrdjoxldrxrpjkvldrglrspguglirsguzqvurkvpuzjp
qmmqpuvlgugjfruqrkgyruzjrmpqabjon

1nKn4nrrJywjmurkqpruzjrbgogujdrpgizurqkrpjmbxwjojlurqprpjkvldrfjurkqpuz
glrmxpxipxmzr1nKn3,ruzgfrsqp rgfrmpqcgdjdruqrhqvr'XF-GF'rSGUZrLQrQUZJP
SXPPXLUGJFrQKrXLHr GLD,rJYMPJFFrQPrGOMBGJD,rGLWBVDGLIrAVUrLQUrBGOGUJDrUQ
SXPPXLUGJFrQKrOJPWZXLUGAGBGUHrQPrKGULJFFrKQPrXLHrMVPMQFJn

1nKn5nrrFqojrfuxujfrdqrlqurxbbqsrdgfwbxgojpfrqkrwjpuxglrgombgjd
sxppxlugjfrqpruzjrjywbvfgqlrqprbgoguxugqlrqkrwjpuxglruhmjfrqkrdxoxijfn
Gkrxlhrdgfwbxgojprqprbgoguxugqlrfjurkqpuzrglruzgfrxipjjojlurcgqbxujfruzj
bxsrqkruzjrfuxujrxmmbgwxabjruqruzgfrxipjjojlu,ruzjrxipjjojlurfzxbbraj
glujpmpjujdruqrox jruzjroxygovordgfwbxgojprqprbgoguxugqlrmjpoguujdrah
uzjrxmmbgwxabjrfuxujrbxsnrrUzjrglcxbgdguhrqprvljlkqpwjxagbguhrqkrxlh
mpqcgfgqlrqkruzgfrxipjjojlurfzxbbrlqurcqgdruzjrpjoxglglirmpqcgfgqlfn

1nKn6nrrGLDJOLGUHr-rHqvrxipjjruqrgldjolgkhrxldrzqbdruzjrKqvldxugql,ruzj
upxdjoxp rqsljp,rxlhrxijlurqprjombqhjjrqkruzjrKqvldxugql,rxlhqlj
mpqcgdglirwqmgjfrqkrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp frglrxwwqpdxlwj
sguzruzgfrxipjjojlu,rxldrxlhrcqbvlujjpfrxffqwgxujdrsguzruzjrmpqdvwugql,
mpqoqugqlrxldrdgfupgavugqlrqkrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgwrsqp f,
zxpobjffrkpqorxbbrbgxagbguh,rwqfufrxldrjymjlfjf,rglwbvdglirbjixbrkjjf,
uzxurxpgfjrdgpjwubhrqprgldgpjwubhrkpqorxlhrqkruzjrkqbbqsglirszgwzrhqvrdq
qprwxvfjruqrqwwvp:r(x)rdgfupgavugqlrqkruzgfrqprxlhrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
sqp ,r(a)rxbujpxugql,roqdgkgwxugql,rqprxddgugqlfrqprdjbjugqlfruqrxlh
Mpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorsqp ,rxldr(w)rxlhrDjkjwurhqvrwxvfjn


Fjwugqlrr2nrrGlkqpoxugqlrxaqvuruzjrOgffgqlrqkrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo

Mpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorgfrfhlqlhoqvfrsguzruzjrkpjjrdgfupgavugqlrqk
jbjwupqlgwrsqp frglrkqpoxufrpjxdxabjrahruzjrsgdjfurcxpgjuhrqkrwqomvujpf
glwbvdglirqafqbjuj,rqbd,rogddbj-xijdrxldrljsrwqomvujpfnrrGurjygfuf
ajwxvfjrqkruzjrjkkqpufrqkrzvldpjdfrqkrcqbvlujjpfrxldrdqlxugqlfrkpqo
mjqmbjrglrxbbrsxb frqkrbgkjn

Cqbvlujjpfrxldrkglxlwgxbrfvmmqpuruqrmpqcgdjrcqbvlujjpfrsguzruzj
xffgfuxlwjruzjhrljjd,rgfrwpgugwxbruqrpjxwzglirMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo'f
iqxbfrxldrjlfvpgliruzxuruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorwqbbjwugqlrsgbb
pjoxglrkpjjbhrxcxgbxabjrkqprijljpxugqlfruqrwqojnrrGlr2001,ruzjrMpq.jwu
IvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugqlrsxfrwpjxujdruqrmpqcgdjrxrfjwvpj
xldrmjpoxljlurkvuvpjrkqprMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorxldrkvuvpjrijljpxugqlfn
UqrbjxplroqpjrxaqvuruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugql
xldrzqsrhqvprjkkqpufrxldrdqlxugqlfrwxlrzjbm,rfjjrFjwugqlfr3rxldr4
xldruzjrKqvldxugqlrsjarmxijrxurzuum://sssnmibxknqpin


Fjwugqlr3nrrGlkqpoxugqlrxaqvuruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcj
Kqvldxugql

UzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugqlrgfrxrlqlrmpqkgu
501(w)(3)rjdvwxugqlxbrwqpmqpxugqlrqpixlgtjdrvldjpruzjrbxsfrqkruzj
fuxujrqkrOgffgffgmmgrxldripxlujdruxyrjyjomurfuxuvfrahruzjrGlujplxb
PjcjlvjrFjpcgwjnrrUzjrKqvldxugql'frJGLrqprkjdjpxbruxyrgdjlugkgwxugql
lvoajprgfr64-6221541nrrGufr501(w)(3)rbjuujprgfrmqfujdrxu
zuum://mibxknqpi/kvldpxgfglinrrWqlupgavugqlfruqruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi
BgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugqlrxpjruxyrdjdvwugabjruqruzjrkvbbrjyujlu
mjpoguujdrahrVnFnrkjdjpxbrbxsfrxldrhqvprfuxuj'frbxsfn

UzjrKqvldxugql'frmpglwgmxbrqkkgwjrgfrbqwxujdrxur4557rOjbxlrDpnrFn
Kxgpaxl f,rX ,r99712n,ravurgufrcqbvlujjpfrxldrjombqhjjfrxpjrfwxuujpjd
uzpqvizqvurlvojpqvfrbqwxugqlfnrrGufravfgljffrqkkgwjrgfrbqwxujdrxu
809rLqpuzr1500rSjfu,rFxburBx jrWguh,rVUr84116,r(801)r596-1887,rjoxgb
avfgljff@mibxknqpinrrJoxgbrwqluxwurbgl frxldrvmruqrdxujrwqluxwu
glkqpoxugqlrwxlrajrkqvldrxuruzjrKqvldxugql'frsjarfgujrxldrqkkgwgxb
mxijrxurzuum://mibxknqpi

Kqprxddgugqlxbrwqluxwurglkqpoxugql:
rrrrrDpnrIpjiqphrAnrLjsah
rrrrrWzgjkrJyjwvugcjrxldrDgpjwuqp
rrrrrialjsah@mibxknqpi


Fjwugqlr4nrrGlkqpoxugqlrxaqvurDqlxugqlfruqruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi
BgujpxphrXpwzgcjrKqvldxugql

Mpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uordjmjldfrvmqlrxldrwxllqurfvpcgcjrsguzqvursgdj
fmpjxdrmvabgwrfvmmqpurxldrdqlxugqlfruqrwxpphrqvurgufrogffgqlrqk
glwpjxfgliruzjrlvoajprqkrmvabgwrdqoxglrxldrbgwjlfjdrsqp fruzxurwxlraj
kpjjbhrdgfupgavujdrglroxwzgljrpjxdxabjrkqporxwwjffgabjrahruzjrsgdjfu
xppxhrqkrjevgmojlurglwbvdglirqvudxujdrjevgmojlunrrOxlhrfoxbbrdqlxugqlf
($1ruqr$5,000)rxpjrmxpugwvbxpbhrgomqpuxluruqroxgluxglgliruxyrjyjomu
fuxuvfrsguzruzjrGPFn

UzjrKqvldxugqlrgfrwqooguujdruqrwqombhglirsguzruzjrbxsfrpjivbxugli
wzxpgugjfrxldrwzxpguxabjrdqlxugqlfrglrxbbr50rfuxujfrqkruzjrVlgujd
FuxujfnrrWqombgxlwjrpjevgpjojlufrxpjrlqurvlgkqporxldrgurux jfrx
wqlfgdjpxabjrjkkqpu,rovwzrmxmjpsqp rxldroxlhrkjjfruqrojjurxldr jjmrvm
sguzruzjfjrpjevgpjojlufnrrSjrdqrlqurfqbgwgurdqlxugqlfrglrbqwxugqlf
szjpjrsjrzxcjrlqurpjwjgcjdrspguujlrwqlkgpoxugqlrqkrwqombgxlwjnrrUq
FJLDrDQLXUGQLFrqprdjujpogljruzjrfuxuvfrqkrwqombgxlwjrkqprxlh
mxpugwvbxprfuxujrcgfgurzuum://mibxknqpi

Szgbjrsjrwxllqurxldrdqrlqurfqbgwgurwqlupgavugqlfrkpqorfuxujfrszjpjrsj
zxcjrlqurojuruzjrfqbgwguxugqlrpjevgpjojluf,rsjr lqsrqkrlqrmpqzgagugql
xixglfurxwwjmuglirvlfqbgwgujdrdqlxugqlfrkpqordqlqpfrglrfvwzrfuxujfrszq
xmmpqxwzrvfrsguzrqkkjpfruqrdqlxujn

Glujplxugqlxbrdqlxugqlfrxpjripxujkvbbhrxwwjmujd,ravursjrwxllqurox j
xlhrfuxujojlufrwqlwjplgliruxyrupjxuojlurqkrdqlxugqlfrpjwjgcjdrkpqo
qvufgdjruzjrVlgujdrFuxujfnrrVnFnrbxsfrxbqljrfsxomrqvprfoxbbrfuxkkn

Mbjxfjrwzjw ruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirSjarmxijfrkqprwvppjlurdqlxugql
ojuzqdfrxldrxddpjffjfnrrDqlxugqlfrxpjrxwwjmujdrglrxrlvoajprqkrquzjp
sxhfrglwbvdglirwzjw f,rqlbgljrmxhojlufrxldrwpjdgurwxpdrdqlxugqlfn
Uqrdqlxuj,rmbjxfjrcgfgu:rzuum://mibxknqpi/dqlxuj


Fjwugqlr5nrrIjljpxbrGlkqpoxugqlrXaqvurMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjbjwupqlgw
sqp fn

MpqkjffqprOgwzxjbrFnrZxpurgfruzjrqpgiglxuqprqkruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo
wqlwjmurqkrxrbgapxphrqkrjbjwupqlgwrsqp fruzxurwqvbdrajrkpjjbhrfzxpjd
sguzrxlhqljnrrKqpruzgpuhrhjxpf,rzjrmpqdvwjdrxldrdgfupgavujdrMpq.jwu
Ivujlajpi-uorjAqq frsguzrqlbhrxrbqqfjrljusqp rqkrcqbvlujjprfvmmqpun


Mpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uorjAqq frxpjrqkujlrwpjxujdrkpqorfjcjpxbrmpglujd
jdgugqlf,rxbbrqkrszgwzrxpjrwqlkgpojdrxfrMvabgwrDqoxglrglruzjrVnFn
vlbjffrxrwqmhpgizurlqugwjrgfrglwbvdjdnrrUzvf,rsjrdqrlqurljwjffxpgbh
 jjmrjAqq frglrwqombgxlwjrsguzrxlhrmxpugwvbxprmxmjprjdgugqln


OqfurmjqmbjrfuxpurxurqvprSjarfgujrszgwzrzxfruzjroxglrMIrfjxpwzrkxwgbguh:

rrrrrzuum://sssnivujlajpinqpi

UzgfrSjarfgujrglwbvdjfrglkqpoxugqlrxaqvurMpq.jwurIvujlajpi-uo,
glwbvdglirzqsruqrox jrdqlxugqlfruqruzjrMpq.jwurIvujlajpirBgujpxph
XpwzgcjrKqvldxugql,rzqsruqrzjbmrmpqdvwjrqvprljsrjAqq f,rxldrzqsruq
fvafwpgajruqrqvprjoxgbrljsfbjuujpruqrzjxprxaqvurljsrjAqq fn
