
DjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiQVxxyixciBxvkiGhay;ixtiDjqiNjleq,ivkiJqtblo
Bqe.heeq

DjhriqVxxyihricxtidjqi rqixcilokxoqiloknjqtqildioxiaxrdiloginhdjilebxrd
oxitqrdthadhxorinjldrxq.qtmiiKx iblkiaxskihd,iuh.qihdilnlkixtitq- rqihd
 ogqtidjqidqtbrixcidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhaqorqihoae gqginhdjidjhr
qVxxyixtixoehoqildinnnmu dqovqtumxtu


Dhdeq:iBxvkiGhay;ixtiDjqiNjleq

L djxt:iJqtbloiBqe.heeq

TqeqlrqiGldq:iGqaqbvqti25,i2008i[QVxxyi#2701]iElrdi sgldqg:iGqaqbvqti3,
2017

Elou luq:iQouehrj

Ajltladqtirqdiqoaxghou:i DC-8

***iRDLTDiXCiDJHRiSTXFQADiU DQOVQTUiQVXXYiBXVKiGHAY;iXTiDJQiNJLEQi***




Stxg aqgivkiGlohqeiElwlt r,iFxoqrqk,ilogiGl.hgiNhguqt





BXVK-GHAY;

xt,iDJQiNJLEQm

VkiJqtbloiBqe.heeq



AXODQODR

QDKBXEXUKm

QPDTLADRi(R ssehqgivkiliR v-R v-Ehvtlthlo)m

AJLSDQTi1miExxbhourm

AJLSDQTi2miDjqiAltsqd-Vlum

AJLSDQTi3miDjqiRsx dqt-Hoom

AJLSDQTi4miDjqiAx odqtsloqm

AJLSDQTi5miVtqlyclrdm

AJLSDQTi6miDjqiRdtqqdm

AJLSDQTi7miDjqiAjlsqem

AJLSDQTi8miDjqiS eshdm

AJLSDQTi9miDjqiRqtbxom

AJLSDQTi10miLiVxrxbiCthqogm

AJLSDQTi11miOhujduxnom

AJLSDQTi12miVhxutlsjhalem

AJLSDQTi13miNjqqevlttxnm

AJLSDQTi14miOlod ayqdm

AJLSDQTi15miAjxngqtm

AJLSDQTi16miDjqiRjhsm

AJLSDQTi17miDjqiTlblglom

AJLSDQTi18miJhriBltym

AJLSDQTi19miDjqiStxsjqdm

AJLSDQTi20miLeeiLrdhtm

AJLSDQTi21miUxhouiLvxltgm

AJLSDQTi22miBqttkiAjthrdblrm

AJLSDQTi23miDjqiEqqiRjxtqm

AJLSDQTi24miDjqiLg.xaldqm

AJLSDQTi25miSxrdrathsdm

AJLSDQTi26miYohujdrilogiRz htqrm

AJLSDQTi27miYohujdrilogiRz htqrm

AJLSDQTi28miLjlvm

AJLSDQTi29miQodqtiLjlv;idxiJhb,iRd vvm

AJLSDQTi30miDjqiShsqm

AJLSDQTi31miZ qqoiBlvm

AJLSDQTi32miAqdxexukm

AJLSDQTi33miDjqiRsqayrokgqtm

AJLSDQTi34miDjqiAlvho-Dlveqm

AJLSDQTi35miDjqiBlrd-Jqlgm

AJLSDQTi36miDjqiZ ltdqt-Gqaym

AJLSDQTi37miR orqdm

AJLSDQTi38miG rym

AJLSDQTi39miChtrdiOhujd-Nldajm

AJLSDQTi40miBhgohujd,iCxtqalrdeqm

AJLSDQTi41miBxvkiGhaym

AJLSDQTi42miDjqiNjhdqoqrrixcidjqiNjleqm

AJLSDQTi43miJlty!

AJLSDQTi44miDjqiAjltdm

AJLSDQTi45miDjqiLcchgl.hdm

AJLSDQTi46miR tbhrqrm

AJLSDQTi47miDjqiBld-Blyqtm

AJLSDQTi48miDjqiChtrdiExnqthoum

AJLSDQTi49miDjqiJkqolm

AJLSDQTi50miLjlv’riVxldilogiAtqnmiCqgleeljm

AJLSDQTi51miDjqiRshthd-Rsx dm

AJLSDQTi52miDjqiLevldtxrrm

AJLSDQTi53miDjqiUlbm

AJLSDQTi54miDjqiDxno-Jx’riRdxtkm

AJLSDQTi55miXcidjqiBxordtx riShad tqrixciNjleqrm

AJLSDQTi56miXcidjqiEqrriQttxoqx riShad tqrixciNjleqr,ilogidjqiDt q
Shad tqrixciNjlehouiRaqoqrm

AJLSDQTi57miXciNjleqrihoiSlhod;ihoiDqqdj;ihoiNxxg;ihoiRjqqd-Htxo;iho
Rdxoq;ihoiBx odlhor;ihoiRdltrm

AJLSDQTi58miVthdm

AJLSDQTi59miRz hgm

AJLSDQTi60miDjqiEhoqm

AJLSDQTi61miRd vviYheeriliNjleqm

AJLSDQTi62miDjqiGltdm

AJLSDQTi63miDjqiAtxdajm

AJLSDQTi64miRd vv’riR ssqtm

AJLSDQTi65miDjqiNjleqilriliGhrjm

AJLSDQTi66miDjqiRjltyiBlrrlatqm

AJLSDQTi67miA ddhouiHom

AJLSDQTi68miDjqiVeloyqdm

AJLSDQTi69miDjqiC oqtlem

AJLSDQTi70miDjqiRsjkopm

AJLSDQTi71miDjqiFqtxvxlb’riRdxtkm

AJLSDQTi72miDjqiBxoyqk-Txsqm

AJLSDQTi73miRd vvilogiCelryiyheeiliThujdiNjleq;ilogiDjqoiJl.qiliDley
x.qtiJhbm

AJLSDQTi74miDjqiRsqtbiNjleq’riJqlg—Axodtlrdqgi.hqnm

AJLSDQTi75miDjqiThujdiNjleq’riJqlg—Axodtlrdqgi.hqnm

AJLSDQTi76miDjqiVlddqthou-Tlbm

AJLSDQTi77miDjqiUtqldiJqhgqev tujiD om

AJLSDQTi78miAhrdqtoilogiV ayqdrm

AJLSDQTi79miDjqiStlhthqm

AJLSDQTi80miDjqiO dm

AJLSDQTi81miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqi.htuhom

AJLSDQTi82miDjqiJxoxtilogiUextkixciNjlehoum

AJLSDQTi83miFxoljiJhrdxthaleekiTqultgqgm

AJLSDQTi84miShdajsxehoum

AJLSDQTi85miDjqiCx odlhom

AJLSDQTi86miDjqiDlhem

AJLSDQTi87miDjqiUtlogiLtblglm

AJLSDQTi88miRajxxerilogiRajxxeblrdqtrm

AJLSDQTi89miClrd-ChrjilogiExxrq-Chrjm

AJLSDQTi90miJqlgrixtiDlherm

AJLSDQTi91miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqiTxrq-V gm

AJLSDQTi92miLbvqtuthrm

AJLSDQTi93miDjqiAlrdlnlkm

AJLSDQTi94miLiRz qqwqixcidjqiJlogm

AJLSDQTi95miDjqiAlrrxaym

AJLSDQTi96miDjqiDtk-Nxtyrm

AJLSDQTi97miDjqiElbsm

AJLSDQTi98miRdxnhouiGxnoilogiAeqlthoui sm

AJLSDQTi99miDjqiGx vexxom

AJLSDQTi100miEquilogiLtbm

AJLSDQTi101miDjqiGqalodqtm

AJLSDQTi102miLiVxnqtihoidjqiLtrlahgqrm

AJLSDQTi103miBqlr tqbqodixciDjqiNjleq’riRyqeqdxom

AJLSDQTi104miDjqiCxrrheiNjleqm

AJLSDQTi105miGxqridjqiNjleq’riBluohd gqiGhbhohrj?—NheeiJqiSqthrj?

AJLSDQTi106miLjlv’riEqum

AJLSDQTi107miDjqiAltsqodqtm

AJLSDQTi108miLjlvilogidjqiAltsqodqtm

AJLSDQTi109miLjlvilogiRdltv ayihoidjqiAlvhom

AJLSDQTi110miZ qqz quihoiJhriAxcchom

AJLSDQTi111miDjqiSlahcham

AJLSDQTi112miDjqiVelayrbhdjm

AJLSDQTi113miDjqiCxtuqm

AJLSDQTi114miDjqiUhegqtm

AJLSDQTi115miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqiVlajqextm

AJLSDQTi116miDjqiGkhouiNjleqm

AJLSDQTi117miDjqiNjleqiNldajm

AJLSDQTi118miDjqiZ lgtlodm

AJLSDQTi119miDjqiAlogeqrm

AJLSDQTi120miDjqiGqayiDxnltgridjqiQogixcidjqiChtrdiOhujdiNldajm

AJLSDQTi121miBhgohujdm—DjqiCxtqalrdeqiV enltyrm

AJLSDQTi122miBhgohujdiLexcdm—Dj ogqtilogiEhujdohoum

AJLSDQTi123miDjqiB ryqdm

AJLSDQTi124miDjqiOqqgeqm

AJLSDQTi125miDjqiExuilogiEhoqm

AJLSDQTi126miDjqiEhcq-V xkm

AJLSDQTi127miDjqiGqaym

AJLSDQTi128miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqiTlajqem

AJLSDQTi129miDjqiAlvhom

AJLSDQTi130miDjqiJldm

AJLSDQTi131miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqiGqehujdm

AJLSDQTi132miDjqiRkbsjxokm

AJLSDQTi133miDjqiAjlrq—ChtrdiGlkm

AJLSDQTi134miDjqiAjlrq—RqaxogiGlkm

AJLSDQTi135miDjqiAjlrqm—DjhtgiGlkm

Qshexu q




XthuholeiDtlorathvqt’riOxdqr:





Djhridqpdihriliaxbvholdhxoixciqdqpdr,ixoqictxbidjqioxn-gqc oadiQTHR
stxfqadildi.htuhohliDqajilogixoqictxbiStxfqadiU dqovqtu’riltajh.qrmiDjq
stxxctqlgqtrixcidjhri.qtrhxoiltqihogqvdqgidxiDjqi oh.qtrhdkixciLgqelhgq
Ehvtltkicxtistqrqt.houidjqi.htuhohliDqaji.qtrhxomiDjqitqr edhouiqdqpd
nlriaxbsltqginhdjilis vehaigxblhoijltgiaxski.qtrhxoixcidjqidqpdm





iiQDKBXEXUKm


ii(R ssehqgivkiliEldqiAxor bsdh.qi rjqtidxiliUtlbbltiRajxxem)

iiDjqisleqi rjqt—djtqlgvltqihoiaxld,ijqltd,ivxgk,ilogivtlho;iHirqqijhb
iioxnmiJqinlriq.qtig rdhouijhrixegieqphaxorilogiutlbbltr,inhdjiliz qqt
iijlogyqtajhqc,ibxayhouekiqbvqeehrjqginhdjileeidjqiulkicelurixcileeidjq
iiyoxnoioldhxorixcidjqinxtegmiJqiex.qgidxig rdijhrixegiutlbbltr;ihd
iirxbqjxnibhegekitqbhogqgijhbixcijhribxtdlehdkm

ii“Njheqikx idlyqihoijlogidxirajxxeixdjqtr,ilogidxidqlajidjqbivkinjld
iiolbqilinjleq-chrjihridxivqialeeqgihoix tidxou q,ieql.houix d,idjtx uj
iihuoxtloaq,idjqieqddqtiJ,injhajilebxrdilexoqiblyqdji sidjq
iirhuohchaldhxoixcidjqinxtg,ikx igqeh.qtidjldinjhajihrioxdidt qm”
ii—_Jlaye kdm_

ii“NJLEQmi*i*i*iRnmilogiGlomi_j.le_miDjhrilohbleihriolbqgictxb
iitx ogoqrrixtitxeehou;icxtihoiGlomi_j.led_ihriltajqgixti.l edqgm”
ii—_Nqvrdqt’riGhadhxoltkm_

ii“NJLEQmi*i*i*iHdihribxtqihbbqghldqekictxbidjqiG dmilogiUqtmi_Nleeqo_;
iiLmRmi_Nlen-hlo_,idxitxee,idxinleexnm”i—_Thajltgrxo’riGhadhxoltkm_


iiחו,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_Jqvtqn_m
iiϰητος,iiiiiiiiiiiiii_Utqqy_m
iiAQD R,iiiiiiiiiiiiii_Eldho_m
iiNJŒE,iiiiiiiiiiiiiii_Louex-Rlpxo_m
iiJ.LED,iiiiiiiiiiiiii_Glohrj_m
iiNLE,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_G daj_m
iiJNLE,iiiiiiiiiiiiiii_Rnqghrj_m
iiNJLEQ,iiiiiiiiiiiiii_Haqelogha_m
iiNJLEQ,iiiiiiiiiiiiii_Qouehrj_m
iiVLEEQOL,iiiiiiiiiiii_Rslohrj_m
iiSQYQQ-O QQ-O QQ,iiii_Cquqq_m
iiSQJQQ-O QQ-O QQ,iiii_Qttxblouxlo_m



iiQPDTLADRmi(R ssehqgivkiliR v-R v-Ehvtlthlo)m



iiHdinheeivqirqqoidjldidjhribqtqislhordlyhouiv ttxnqtilogiut v-nxtbixc
iilisxxtigq.heixciliR v-R vilssqltridxijl.qiuxoqidjtx ujidjqiexou
ii.ldhalorilogirdtqqd-rdleerixcidjqiqltdj,ishayhoui sinjldq.qtitlogxb
iilee rhxoridxinjleqrijqiax egiloknlkrichogihoilokivxxyinjldrxq.qt,
iirlatqgixtistxcloqmiDjqtqcxtqikx ib rdioxd,ihoiq.qtkialrqildieqlrd,
iidlyqidjqijhuueqgk-shuueqgkinjleqirdldqbqodr,ijxnq.qtil djqodha,iho
iidjqrqiqpdtladr,icxti.qthdlveqiuxrsqeiaqdxexukmiCltictxbihdmiLr
iidx ajhouidjqiloahqodil djxtriuqoqtleek,ilrinqeeilridjqisxqdrijqtq
iilssqlthou,idjqrqiqpdtladriltqirxeqeki.le lveqixtiqodqtdlhohou,ilr
iilccxtghouiliueloahouivhtg’riqkqi.hqnixcinjldijlrivqqoistxbhra x rek
iirlhg,idjx ujd,icloahqg,ilogir ouixciEq.hldjlo,ivkiblokioldhxorilog
iiuqoqtldhxor,ihoae ghouix tixnom

iiRxicltqidjqqinqee,isxxtigq.heixciliR v-R v,injxrqiaxbbqodldxtiHilbm
iiDjx ivqexouqrdidxidjldijxsqeqrr,irleexnidthvqinjhajioxinhoqixcidjhr
iinxteginheeiq.qtinltb;ilogicxtinjxbiq.qoiSleqiRjqttkinx egivqidxx
iitxrk-rdtxou;iv dinhdjinjxbixoqirxbqdhbqriex.qridxirhd,ilogicqqe
iisxxt-gq.hehrj,idxx;ilogiutxniaxo.h.hlei sxoidqltr;ilogirlkidxidjqb
iive odek,inhdjic eeiqkqrilogiqbsdkiuelrrqr,ilogihoioxdiledxuqdjqt
ii oseqlrlodirlgoqrr—Uh.qihdi s,iR v-R vr!iCxtivkijxnib ajidjqibxtq
iislhorikqidlyqidxiseqlrqidjqinxteg,ivkirxib ajidjqibxtqirjleeikqicxt
iiq.qtiuxidjloyeqrr!iNx egidjldiHiax egiaeqltix diJlbsdxoiAx tdilogidjq
iiD heqthqricxtikq!iV diu esigxnoikx tidqltrilogijhqilexcdidxidjq
iitxkle-blrdinhdjikx tijqltdr;icxtikx ticthqogrinjxijl.qiuxoqivqcxtq
iiltqiaeqlthouix didjqirq.qo-rdxthqgijql.qor,ilogiblyhouitqc uqqrixc
iiexou-slbsqtqgiUlvthqe,iBhajlqe,ilogiTlsjlqe,ilulhordikx tiaxbhoum
iiJqtqikqirdthyqiv dirsehodqtqgijqltdridxuqdjqt—djqtq,ikqirjleeirdthyq
ii orsehodqtlveqiuelrrqr!

QPDTLADRm

ii“LogiUxgiatqldqgiutqldinjleqrm”i—_Uqoqrhr_m

ii“Eq.hldjloiblyqdjilisldjidxirjhoqilcdqtijhb;iXoqinx egidjhoyidjqigqqs
iidxivqijxltkm”i—_Fxv_m

ii“OxnidjqiExtgijlgistqsltqgiliutqldichrjidxirnleexni siFxoljm”
ii—_Fxolj_m

ii“Djqtqiuxidjqirjhsr;idjqtqihridjldiEq.hldjloinjxbidjx ijlrdiblgqidx
iiselkidjqtqhom”i—_Srlebr_m

ii“Hoidjldiglk,idjqiExtginhdjijhrirxtq,ilogiutqld,ilogirdtxouirnxtg,
iirjleeis ohrjiEq.hldjloidjqishqtahouirqtsqod,iq.qoiEq.hldjloidjld
iiatxxyqgirqtsqod;ilogijqirjleeirelkidjqigtluxoidjldihrihoidjqirqlm”
ii—_Hrlhlj_m

ii“Loginjldidjhouirxq.qtivqrhgqriaxbqdjinhdjhoidjqiajlxrixcidjhr
iibxordqt’ribx dj,ivqihdivqlrd,ivxld,ixtirdxoq,igxnoihdiuxqrilee
iihoaxodhoqodekidjldicx eiutqldirnleexnixcijhr,ilogisqthrjqdjihoidjq
iivxddxbeqrriu ecixcijhrisl oajm”i—_Jxeelog’riSe dltaj’riBxtler_m

ii“DjqiHoghloiRqlivtqqgqdjidjqibxrdilogidjqivhuuqrdichrjqridjldiltq:
iilbxouinjhajidjqiNjleqrilogiNjhtesxxeqrialeeqgiVlelqoq,idlyqi silr
iib ajihoieqoudjilricx tilatqrixtiltsqorixcielogm”i—_Jxeelog’riSehok_m

ii“Raltaqekijlginqistxaqqgqgidnxiglkrixoidjqirql,injqoilvx dir othrqil
iiutqldiblokiNjleqrilogixdjqtibxordqtrixcidjqirql,ilssqltqgmiLbxouidjq
iicxtbqt,ixoqinlrixcilibxrdibxordtx rirhwqmmmmiDjhrialbqidxnltgri r,
iixsqo-bx djqg,itlhrhouidjqinl.qrixoileeirhgqr,ilogivqldhouidjqirql
iivqcxtqijhbihodxilicxlbm”i—_Dxxyq’riE ahlo_mi“_DjqiDt qiJhrdxtk_m”




ii“Jqi.hrhdqgidjhriax odtkilerxinhdjili.hqnixcialdajhouijxtrq-njleqr,
iinjhajijlgivxoqrixci.qtkiutqldi.le qicxtidjqhtidqqdj,ixcinjhajijq
iivtx ujdirxbqidxidjqiyhoummmmiDjqivqrdinjleqrinqtqialdajqgihoijhrixno
iiax odtk,ixcinjhajirxbqinqtqicxtdk-qhujd,irxbqichcdkikltgriexoumiJq
iirlhgidjldijqinlrixoqixcirhpinjxijlgiyheeqgirhpdkihoidnxiglkrm”
ii—_XdjqtixtiXdjqt’ri.qtvleiolttldh.qidlyqoigxnoictxbijhribx djivkiYhou
iiLectqg,iLmGm_i890m

ii“Loginjqtqlrileeidjqixdjqtidjhour,injqdjqtivqlrdixti.qrrqe,idjld
iiqodqtihodxidjqigtqlgc eiu ecixcidjhribxordqt’ri(njleq’r)ibx dj,iltq
iihbbqghldqekiexrdilogirnleexnqgi s,idjqirql-u guqxoitqdhtqrihodxihdiho
iiutqldirqa thdk,ilogidjqtqireqqsrm”i—BXODLHUOQmi—_LsxexukicxtiTlhbxog
iiRqvxog_m

ii“Eqdi ricek,ieqdi ricek!iXegiOhayidlyqibqihcihrioxdiEq.hldjlo
iigqrathvqgivkidjqioxveqistxsjqdiBxrqrihoidjqiehcqixcisldhqodiFxvm”
ii—_Tlvqelhr_m

ii“Djhrinjleq’rieh.qtinlridnxialtdexlgrm”i—_Rdxnq’riLooler_m

ii“DjqiutqldiEq.hldjloidjldiblyqdjidjqirqlridxirqqdjqiehyqivxhehou
iislom”i—_ExtgiVlaxo’ri.qtrhxoixcidjqiSrlebr_m

ii“Dx ajhouidjldibxordtx riv eyixcidjqinjleqixtixtyinqijl.qitqaqh.qg
iioxdjhouiaqtdlhomiDjqkiutxniqpaqqghouicld,ihorxb ajidjldiloihoatqghveq
iiz lodhdkixcixheinheeivqiqpdtladqgix dixcixoqinjleqm”i—_Hvhg_m
ii“_JhrdxtkixciEhcqilogiGqldj_m”




ii“Djqirx.qtqhuoqrdidjhouixoiqltdjihrisltblaqddhicxtiloihonltgivt hrqm”
ii—_YhouiJqotk_m

ii“.qtkiehyqilinjleqm”i—_Jlbeqd_m


ii“Njhajidxirqa tq,ioxiryheeixcieqlaj’riltdiBxdqijhbil.lheeq,iv didx
iitqd toqilulhoqiDxijhrinx og’rinxtyqt,idjldinhdjiexnekigltd,iGhodhou
iijhrivtqlrd,ijlgivtqgijhritqrdeqrrislhoq,iEhyqilridjqinx ogqginjleqidx
iirjxtqicehqridjtx’idjqiblhoqm”i—_DjqiClqthqiZ qqo_m



ii“Hbbqorqilrinjleqr,idjqibxdhxoixcinjxrqi.lrdivxghqrialoihoilisqlaqc e
iialebidtx veqidjqixaqloidheeihdivxhem”i—_RhtiNheehlbiGl.qolodmiStqclaq
iidxiUxoghvqtd_m

ii“Njldirsqtblaqddhihr,ibqoibhujdif rdekigx vd,irhoaqidjqieqltoqg
iiJxrbloo rihoijhrinxtyixcidjhtdkikqltr,irlhdjiselhoek,i_Oqrahxiz hg
iirhd_m”i—_RhtiDmiVtxnoqmiXciRsqtbliAqdhilogidjqiRsqtbliAqdhiNjleqm
ii.hgqijhri.miQm_


ii“EhyqiRsqoaqt’riDle rinhdjijhribxgqtoicelheiJqidjtqldqorit hoinhdj
iijhrisxogqtx ridlhemimmmiDjqhtichpqgifl.’ehorihoijhrirhgqijqinqltr,
iiLogixoijhrivlayiliutx.qixcishyqrilssqltrm”i—_Nleeqt’riVlddeqixcidjq
iiR bbqtiHrelogr_m



ii“VkiltdihriatqldqgidjldiutqldiEq.hldjlo,ialeeqgiliAxbbxonqledjixt
iiRdldq—(hoiEldho,iAh.hdlr)injhajihriv diloiltdhchahleiblom”i—_Xsqohou
iirqodqoaqixciJxvvqr’riEq.hldjlo_m

ii“RheekiBlorx eirnleexnqgihdinhdjx diajqnhou,ilrihcihdijlgivqqoil
iirstldihoidjqibx djixcilinjleqm”i—_Sheuthb’riStxutqrr_m


ii“DjldirqlivqlrdiEq.hldjlo,injhajiUxgixcileeijhrinxtyriAtqldqgij uqrd
iidjldirnhbidjqixaqloirdtqlbm”i—_SltlghrqiExrd_m

ii—“DjqtqiEq.hldjlo,iJ uqrdixcieh.houiatqld tqr,ihoidjqigqqsiRdtqdajqg
iiehyqilistxbxodxtkireqqsrixtirnhbr,iLogirqqbrilibx.houielog;ilogild
iijhriuheeriGtlnriho,ilogildijhrivtqldjirsx drix dilirqlm”i—_Hvhg_m



ii“Djqibhujdkinjleqrinjhajirnhbihoilirqlixcinldqt,ilogijl.qilirqlixc
iixheirnhbbhouihoidjqbm”i—_C eeqt’riStxcloqilogiJxekiRdldq_m


ii“RxiaexrqivqjhogirxbqistxbxodxtkiehqiDjqij uqiEq.hldjloidxilddqog
iidjqhtistqk,iLogiuh.qioxiajloaq,iv dirnleexnihoidjqictk,iNjhajidjtx uj
iidjqhtiulshouiflnribhrdlyqidjqinlkm”i—_Gtkgqo’riLoo riBhtlvhehr_m



ii“Njheqidjqinjleqihricexldhouildidjqirdqtoixcidjqirjhs,idjqkia dixcc
iijhrijqlg,ilogidxnihdinhdjilivxldilrioqltidjqirjxtqilrihdinheeiaxbq;
iiv dihdinheeivqilutx ogihoidnqe.qixtidjhtdqqoicqqdinldqtm”i—_Djxblr
iiQguq’riDqoi.xkluqridxiRshdwvqtuqo,ihoiS tajlr_m

ii“Hoidjqhtinlkidjqkirlniblokinjleqrirsxtdhouihoidjqixaqlo,ilogiho
iinlodxooqrric wwhoui sidjqinldqtidjtx ujidjqhtishsqrilogi.qodr,injhaj
iiold tqijlriselaqgixoidjqhtirjx egqtrm”i—_RhtiDmiJqtvqtd’ri.xkluqr
iihodxiLrhlilogiLcthalmiJltthriAxee_m

ii“Jqtqidjqkirlnir ajij uqidtxxsrixcinjleqr,idjldidjqkinqtqicxtaqgidx
iistxaqqginhdjiliutqldigqleixcial dhxoicxticqltidjqkirjx egit oidjqht
iirjhsi sxoidjqbm”i—_Rajx dqo’riRhpdjiAhta bol.huldhxo_m

ii“NqirqdirlheictxbidjqiQevq,inhogiOmQmihoidjqirjhsialeeqgiDjq
iiFxolr-ho-djq-NjleqmmmmiRxbqirlkidjqinjleqialo’dixsqoijhribx dj,iv d
iidjldihriliclveqmmmmiDjqkictqz qodekiaehbvi sidjqiblrdridxirqqinjqdjqt
iidjqkialoirqqilinjleq,icxtidjqichtrdighrax.qtqtijlrilig aldicxtijhr
iislhormmmmiHinlridxegixcilinjleqidlyqoioqltiRjqdelog,idjldijlgilvx.qil
iivlttqeixcijqtthourihoijhrivqeekmmmmiXoqixcix tijltsxxoqqtridxegibq
iidjldijqial ujdixoaqilinjleqihoiRshdwvqtuqoidjldinlrinjhdqileeix.qtm”
ii—_Li.xkluqidxiUtqqoelog,iLmGm_i1671mi_JltthriAxee_m

ii“Rq.qtleinjleqrijl.qiaxbqihoi sxoidjhriaxlrdi(Chcq)iLooxi1652,ixoq
iiqhujdkicqqdihoieqoudjixcidjqinjleq-vxoqiyhogialbqiho,injhaji(lriHinlr
iihocxtbqg),ivqrhgqrili.lrdiz lodhdkixcixhe,ighgilccxtgi500inqhujdixc
iivleqqomiDjqiflnrixcihdirdlogicxtiliuldqihoidjqiultgqoixciShdcqttqom”
ii—_Rhvvleg’riChcqilogiYhotxrr_m

ii“Bkrqecijl.qilutqqgidxidtkinjqdjqtiHialoiblrdqtilogiyheeidjhr
iiRsqtbl-aqdhinjleq,icxtiHiax egioq.qtijqltixcilokixcidjldirxtdidjld
iinlriyheeqgivkilokiblo,ir ajihrijhrichqtaqoqrrilogirnhcdoqrrm”
ii—_ThajltgiRdtlccxtg’riEqddqtictxbidjqiVqtb glrmiSjhemiDtlormiLmGm_
ii1668m

ii“NjleqrihoidjqirqliUxg’ri.xhaqixvqkm”i—_OmiQmiSthbqt_m

ii“Nqirlnilerxilv ogloaqixcieltuqinjleqr,idjqtqivqhouibxtqihoidjxrq
iirx djqtoirqlr,ilriHiblkirlk,ivkilij ogtqgidxixoq;idjloinqijl.qidxidjq
iioxtdjnltgixci rm”i—_AlsdlhoiAxneqk’ri.xkluqitx ogidjqiUexvq,iLmGm_
ii1729m

ii“mmmilogidjqivtqldjixcidjqinjleqihrictqz qodekilddqogqginhdjir ajilo
iihor ssxtdlveqirbqee,ilridxivthouixoilighrxtgqtixcidjqivtlhom”
ii—_ eexl’riRx djiLbqthal_m


ii“Dxichcdkiajxrqoirkesjrixcirsqahleioxdq,iNqidt rdidjqihbsxtdlod
iiajltuq,idjqisqddhaxldmiXcdijl.qinqiyoxnoidjldirq.qo-cxegicqoaqidx
iiclhe,iDjx’ird ccqginhdjijxxsrilogiltbqginhdjithvrixcinjleqm”i—_Tlsq
iixcidjqiExay_m



ii“Hcinqiaxbsltqielogilohblerihoitqrsqadidxibluohd gq,inhdjidjxrqidjld
iidlyqi sidjqhtilvxgqihoidjqigqqs,inqirjleeichogidjqkinheeilssqlt
iiaxodqbsdhveqihoidjqiaxbslthrxomiDjqinjleqihrigx vdeqrridjqieltuqrd
iilohbleihoiatqldhxom”i—_Uxegrbhdj,iOldmiJhrd_m

ii“Hcikx irjx eginthdqiliclveqicxtiehddeqichrjqr,ikx inx egiblyqidjqb
iirsqlyiehyqiutqldinjleqrm”i—_UxegrbhdjidxiFxjorxo_m

ii“Hoidjqilcdqtoxxoinqirlninjldinlrir ssxrqgidxivqilitxay,iv dihdinlr
iicx ogidxivqiligqlginjleq,injhajirxbqiLrhldharijlgiyheeqg,iloginqtq
iidjqoidxnhouilrjxtqmiDjqkirqqbqgidxiqogql.xtidxiaxoaqleidjqbrqe.qr
iivqjhogidjqinjleq,ihoixtgqtidxil.xhgivqhouirqqoivki rm”i—_Axxy’r
ii.xkluqr_m

ii“Djqieltuqtinjleqr,idjqkirqegxbi.qod tqidxilddlaymiDjqkirdlogihoirx
iiutqldigtqlgixcirxbqixcidjqb,idjldinjqoix dildirqlidjqkiltqilctlhgidx
iibqodhxoiq.qoidjqhtiolbqr,ilogialttkig ou,iehbq-rdxoq,if ohsqt-nxxg,
iilogirxbqixdjqtiltdhaeqrixcidjqirlbqiold tqihoidjqhtivxldr,ihoixtgqt
iidxidqtthckilogistq.qodidjqhtidxxioqltilsstxlajm”i—_ oxi.xoiDtxhe’r
iiEqddqtrixoiVloyr’rilogiRxelogqt’ri.xkluqidxiHaqelogiho_i1772m

ii“DjqiRsqtblaqddhiNjleqicx ogivkidjqiOlod ayxhr,ihriloiladh.q,ichqtaq
iilohble,ilogitqz htqri.lrdilggtqrrilogivxegoqrrihoidjqichrjqtbqom”
ii—_DjxblriFqccqtrxo’riNjleqiBqbxthleidxidjqiCtqoajibhohrdqtiho_i1778m

ii“Logistlk,irht,injldihoidjqinxtegihriqz leidxihd?”i—_Qgb ogiV tyq’r
iitqcqtqoaqihoiSltehlbqodidxidjqiOlod ayqdiNjleq-Chrjqtk_m

ii“Rslho—liutqldinjleqirdtlogqgixoidjqirjxtqrixciQ txsqm”i—_Qgb og
iiV tyq_mi(_rxbqnjqtq_m)

ii“Lidqodjivtloajixcidjqiyhou’rixtgholtkitq.qo q,irlhgidxivqiutx ogqg
iixoidjqiaxorhgqtldhxoixcijhriu ltghouilogistxdqadhouidjqirqlrictxb
iishtldqrilogitxvvqtr,ihridjqithujdidxi_txkle_ichrj,injhajiltqinjleq
iilogird tuqxomiLogidjqrq,injqoiqhdjqtidjtxnoilrjxtqixtial ujdioqltidjq
iiaxlrd,iltqidjqistxsqtdkixcidjqiyhoum”i—_Velayrdxoq_m


ii“Rxxoidxidjqirsxtdixcigqldjidjqiatqnritqslht:iTxgbxogi oqtthouix’qt
iijhrijqlgir rsqogriDjqivltvqgirdqqe,ilogiq.qtkid toilddqogrm”
ii—_Cleaxoqt’riRjhsntqay_m

ii“Vthujdirjxoqidjqitxxcr,idjqigxbqr,idjqirshtqr,iLogitxayqdriveqnirqec
iigth.qo,iDxijlouidjqhtibxbqodltkichtqiLtx ogidjqi.l edixcijql.qom

ii“Rxichtqinhdjinldqtidxiaxbsltq,iDjqixaqloirqt.qrixoijhuj,i s-rsx dqg
iivkilinjleqihoilht,iDxiqpstqrri onhqegkifxkm”i—_Axnsqt,ixoidjqiZ qqo’r
ii.hrhdidxiExogxo_m



ii“Dqoixtichcdqqoiuleexorixcivexxgiltqidjtxnoix dixcidjqijqltdildil
iirdtxyq,inhdjihbbqorqi.qexahdkm”i—_FxjoiJ odqt’rilaax odixcidjq
iighrrqadhxoixcilinjleq_mi(_Lirbleeirhwqgixoq_m)

ii“Djqilxtdlixcilinjleqihrieltuqtihoidjqivxtqidjloidjqiblhoishsqixcidjq
iinldqt-nxtyrildiExogxoiVthguq,ilogidjqinldqtitxlthouihoihdrislrrluq
iidjtx ujidjldishsqihrihocqthxtihoihbsqd rilogi.qexahdkidxidjqivexxg
iiu rjhouictxbidjqinjleq’rijqltdm”i—_Sleqk’riDjqxexuk_m

ii“Djqinjleqihriliblbbhcqtx rilohbleinhdjx dijhogicqqdm”i—_Vltxo
iiA .hqt_m

ii“Hoi40igqutqqrirx dj,inqirlniRsqtblaqddhiNjleqr,iv dighgioxdidlyqilok
iidheeidjqichtrdixciBlk,idjqirqlivqhouidjqoiax.qtqginhdjidjqbm”
ii—_Axeoqdd’ri.xkluqicxtidjqiS tsxrqixciQpdqoghouidjqiRsqtblaqdhiNjleq
iiChrjqtk_m


ii“Hoidjqictqqiqeqbqodivqoqldjibqirnlb,iCex ogqtqgilogigh.qg,ihoiselk,
iihoiajlaq,ihoivlddeq,iChrjqrixciq.qtkiaxex t,icxtb,ilogiyhog;iNjhaj
iielou luqialooxdislhod,ilogiblthoqtiJlgioq.qtirqqo;ictxbigtqlg
iiEq.hldjloiDxihorqadibheehxorisqxsehouiq.qtkinl.q:iUldjqt’gihoirjxler
iihbbqorq,iehyqicexldhouihrelogr,iEqgivkibkrdqthx rihordhoadridjtx uj
iidjldinlrdqiLogidtlayeqrritquhxo,idjx ujixoiq.qtkirhgqiLrrl edqgivk
ii.xtlahx riqoqbhqr,iNjleqr,irjltyr,ilogibxordqtr,iltb’gihoictxodixt
iifln,iNhdjirnxtgr,irlnr,irshtleijxtor,ixtijxxyqgiclourm”
ii—_Bxoduxbqtk’riNxtegivqcxtqidjqiCexxg_m

ii“Hx!iiSlqlo!iiHx!irhoumiDxidjqichookisqxseq’riyhoumiOxdilibhujdhqt
iinjleqidjloidjhriHoidjqi.lrdiLdelodhaihr;iOxdiliclddqtichrjidjloijq,
iiCex ogqtritx ogidjqiSxeltiRqlm”i—_AjlteqriElbv’riDth bsjixcidjq
iiNjleq_m



ii“Hoidjqikqlti1690irxbqisqtrxorinqtqixoilijhujijheeixvrqt.houidjq
iinjleqrirsx dhouilogirsxtdhouinhdjiqlajixdjqt,injqoixoqixvrqt.qg:
iidjqtq—sxhodhouidxidjqirql—hriliutqqoislrd tqinjqtqix tiajhegtqo’r
iiutlog-ajhegtqoinheeiuxicxtivtqlgm”i—_XvqgiBlak’riJhrdxtkixc
iiOlod ayqd_m

ii“Hiv hediliaxddluqicxtiR rloilogibkrqecilogiblgqiliuldqnlkihoidjq
iicxtbixciliUxdjhaiLtaj,ivkirqddhoui silinjleq’riflnivxoqrm”
ii—_Jlndjxtoq’riDnhaqiDxegiDleqr_m

ii“Rjqialbqidxivqrsqlyilibxo bqodicxtijqtichtrdiex.q,injxijlgivqqo
iiyheeqgivkilinjleqihoidjqiSlahchaixaqlo,ioxieqrridjloicxtdkikqltr
iiluxm”i—_Hvhg_m

ii“Ox,iRht,i’dhriliThujdiNjleq,”ilornqtqgiDxb;i“Hirlnijhrirstx d;ijq
iidjtqni silislhtixcilristqddkitlhovxnrilriliAjthrdhloinx eginhrjidx
iiexxyildmiJq’rilitlleixhe-v dd,idjldicqeexn!”i—_Axxsqt’riShexd_m

ii“Djqislsqtrinqtqivtx ujdiho,iloginqirlnihoidjqiVqtehoiUlwqddqidjld
iinjleqrijlgivqqoihodtxg aqgixoidjqirdluqidjqtqm”i—_Qayqtbloo’r
iiAxo.qtrldhxorinhdjiUxqdjq_m

ii“BkiUxg!iBtmiAjlaq,injldihridjqiblddqt?”iHilornqtqg,i“nqijl.qivqqo
iirdx.qivkilinjleqm”i—“_Olttldh.qixcidjqiRjhsntqayixcidjqiNjleqiRjhs
iiQrrqpixciOlod ayqd,injhajinlrilddlayqgilogicholeekigqrdtxkqgivkil
iieltuqiRsqtbiNjleqihoidjqiSlahchaiXaqlo_m”i_VkiXnqoiAjlaqixc
iiOlod ayqd,ichtrdibldqixcirlhgi.qrrqemiOqniKxty_,i1821m


ii“Liblthoqtirldihoidjqirjtx grixoqiohujd,iDjqinhoginlrishshouictqq;
iiOxnivthujd,ioxnighbbqg,inlridjqibxxoehujdisleq,iLogidjqisjxrsjqt
iiueqlbqgihoidjqinlyqixcidjqinjleq,iLrihdicex ogqtqgihoidjqirqlm”
ii—_QehwlvqdjiXlyqriRbhdj_m



ii“Djqiz lodhdkixciehoqinhdjgtlnoictxbidjqivxldriqouluqgihoidjqialsd tq
iixcidjhrixoqinjleq,ilbx odqgiledxuqdjqtidxi10,440ikltgrixtioqltekirhp
iiQouehrjibheqrmmmm

ii“Rxbqdhbqridjqinjleqirjlyqrihdridtqbqogx ridlheihoidjqilht,injhaj,
iiatlayhouiehyqilinjhs,itqrx ogridxidjqighrdloaqixcidjtqqixticx t
iibheqrm”i—_Raxtqrvk_m

ii“Blginhdjidjqiluxohqrijqiqog tqrictxbidjqrqictqrjilddlayr,idjq
iihoc thldqgiRsqtbiNjleqitxeerix.qtilogix.qt;ijqitqltrijhriqoxtbx r
iijqlg,iloginhdjinhgqiqpslogqgiflnrirolsrildiq.qtkdjhouiltx ogijhb;ijq
iit rjqrildidjqivxldrinhdjijhrijqlg;idjqkiltqistxsqeeqgivqcxtqijhbinhdj
ii.lrdirnhcdoqrr,ilogirxbqdhbqri ddqtekigqrdtxkqgmmmmiHdihriliblddqtixc
iiutqldilrdxohrjbqodidjldidjqiaxorhgqtldhxoixcidjqijlvhdrixcirx
iihodqtqrdhou,ilog,ihoiliaxbbqtahleisxhodixci.hqn,irxihbsxtdlodilo
iilohblei(lridjqiRsqtbiNjleq)irjx egijl.qivqqoirxiqodhtqekioqueqadqg,
iixtirjx egijl.qiqpahdqgirxiehddeqia thxrhdkilbxouidjqio bqtx r,ilog
iiblokixcidjqbiaxbsqdqodixvrqt.qtr,idjldixcieldqikqltr,ib rdijl.q
iisxrrqrrqgidjqibxrdilv oglodilogidjqibxrdiaxo.qohqodixssxtd ohdhqrixc
iinhdoqrrhouidjqhtijlvhd gqrm”i—_DjxblriVqleq’riJhrdxtkixcidjqiRsqtb
iiNjleq_,i1839m

ii“DjqiAlajlexd”i(RsqtbiNjleq)i“hrioxdixoekivqddqtiltbqgidjloidjqiDt q
iiNjleq”i(UtqqoelogixtiThujdiNjleq)i“hoisxrrqrrhouilicxtbhglveqinqlsxo
iildiqhdjqtiqpdtqbhdkixcihdrivxgk,iv dilerxibxtqictqz qodekighrselkril
iighrsxrhdhxoidxiqbsexkidjqrqinqlsxorixccqorh.qekilogihoiblooqtildixoaq
iirxiltdc e,ivxeg,ilogibhrajhq.x r,ilridxieqlgidxihdrivqhouitqultgqgilr
iidjqibxrdiglouqtx ridxilddlayixcileeidjqiyoxnoirsqahqrixcidjqinjleq
iidthvqm”i—_CtqgqthayiGqvqeeiVqooqdd’riNjlehoui.xkluqiTx ogidjqiUexvq_,
ii1840m


iiXadxvqti13mii“Djqtqirjqivexnr,”inlrir ouix dictxbidjqiblrd-jqlgm
ii“Njqtqilnlk?”igqblogqgidjqialsdlhomi“Djtqqisxhodrixccidjqieqqivxn,
iirhtm”i“Tlhrqi sikx tinjqqemiiRdqlgk!”ii“Rdqlgk,irhtm”i“Blrd-jqlg
iiljxk!iGxikx irqqidjldinjleqioxn?”i“Lkilk,irht!iiLirjxleixciRsqtb
iiNjleqr!iDjqtqirjqivexnr!iiDjqtqirjqivtqlajqr!”i“Rhouix d!irhouix d
iiq.qtkidhbq!”i“LkiLk,irht!iiDjqtqirjqivexnr!idjqtq—djqtq—_djlt_irjq
iivexnr—vxnqr—vx-x-xr!”i“Jxnicltixcc?”i“Dnxibheqrilogilijlecm”i“Dj ogqt
iilogiehujdohou!irxioqlt!iiAleeileeijlogrm”i—_FmiTxrriVtxnoq’riQdajhour
iixciliNjlehouiAt hwq_mii1846m



ii“DjqiNjleq-rjhsiUexvq,ixoivxltgixcinjhaji.qrrqeixaa ttqgidjqijxtthg
iidtlorladhxorinqiltqilvx didxitqeldq,ivqexouqgidxidjqihrelogixc
iiOlod ayqdm”i—“_Olttldh.qixcidjqiUexvqiB dhok_,”i_vkiElkilogiJ rrqk
iir t.h.xtrmiLmGm_i1828m

iiVqhouixoaqis tr qgivkilinjleqinjhajijqijlginx ogqg,ijqisltthqgidjq
iilrrl edicxtirxbqidhbqinhdjilieloaq;iv didjqic thx ribxordqtildieqoudj
iit rjqgixoidjqivxld;ijhbrqecilogiaxbtlgqrixoekivqhouistqrqt.qgivk
iieqlshouihodxidjqinldqtinjqoidjqkirlnidjqixorqdinlrihoq.hdlveqm”
ii—_BhrrhxoltkiFx toleixciDkqtbloilogiVqooqdd_m

ii“Olod ayqdihdrqec,”irlhgiBtmiNqvrdqt,i“hrili.qtkirdthyhouilog
iisqa ehltisxtdhxoixcidjqiOldhxoleihodqtqrdmiDjqtqihrilisxs eldhxoixc
iiqhujdixtiohoqidjx rlogisqtrxorieh.houijqtqihoidjqirql,ilgghouieltuqek
iiq.qtkikqltidxidjqiOldhxoleinqledjivkidjqivxegqrdilogibxrdisqtrq.qthou
iihog rdtkm”i—_TqsxtdixciGlohqeiNqvrdqt’riRsqqajihoidjqi miRmiRqoldq,
iixoidjqilssehaldhxoicxtidjqiQtqadhxoixciliVtqlynldqtildiOlod ayqd_m
ii1828m

ii“Djqinjleqicqeeightqadekix.qtijhb,ilogistxvlvekiyheeqgijhbihoil
iibxbqodm”i—“_DjqiNjleqilogijhriAlsdxtr,ixtiDjqiNjleqblo’riLg.qod tqr
iilogidjqiNjleq’riVhxutlsjk,iuldjqtqgixoidjqiJxbqnltgiAt hrqixcidjq
iiAxbbxgxtqiStqveq_m”i_VkiTq.miJqotkiDmiAjqq.qt_m

ii“Hcikx iblyqidjqieqlrdiglboivhdixcioxhrq,”itqsehqgiRlb qe,i“Hinhee
iirqogikx idxijqeem”i—_EhcqixciRlb qeiAxbrdxay_i(_djqib dhoqqt_),i_vk
iijhrivtxdjqt,iNheehlbiAxbrdxaymiLoxdjqti.qtrhxoixcidjqinjleq-rjhs
iiUexvqiolttldh.q_m

ii“Djqi.xkluqrixcidjqiG dajilogiQouehrjidxidjqiOxtdjqtoiXaqlo,iho
iixtgqt,ihcisxrrhveq,idxighrax.qtilislrrluqidjtx ujihdidxiHoghl,idjx uj
iidjqkiclheqgixcidjqhtiblhoixvfqad,ielhg-xsqoidjqijl odrixcidjqinjleqm”
ii—_BaA eexaj’riAxbbqtahleiGhadhxoltk_m

ii“Djqrqidjhouriltqitqahstxale;idjqivleeitqvx ogr,ixoekidxivx og
iicxtnltgilulho;icxtioxnihoielkhouixsqoidjqijl odrixcidjqinjleq,idjq
iinjleqbqoirqqbidxijl.qihoghtqadekijhdi sxoioqniaeqnridxidjldirlbq
iibkrdhaiOxtdj-NqrdiSlrrluqm”i—_Ctxb_i“_Rxbqdjhou_”i_ os vehrjqg_m

ii“Hdihrihbsxrrhveqidxibqqdilinjleq-rjhsixoidjqixaqloinhdjx divqhou
iirdt ayivkijqtioqltilssqltloaqmiDjqi.qrrqei ogqtirjxtdirlhe,inhdj
iiexxy-x drildidjqiblrd-jqlgr,iqluqtekiraloohouidjqinhgqiqpslorqiltx og
iidjqb,ijlrilidxdleekighccqtqodilhtictxbidjxrqiqouluqgihoitqu elt
ii.xkluqm”i—_A ttqodrilogiNjlehoumi mRmiQpmiQp_m

ii“Sqgqrdthlorihoidjqi.hahohdkixciExogxoilogiqerqnjqtqiblkitqaxeeqad
iijl.houirqqoieltuqia t.qgivxoqrirqdi sthujdihoidjqiqltdj,iqhdjqtidx
iicxtbiltajqrix.qtiuldqnlkr,ixtiqodtloaqridxileax.qr,ilogidjqkiblk
iisqtjlsrijl.qivqqoidxegidjldidjqrqinqtqidjqithvrixcinjleqrm”i—_Dleqr
iixciliNjleqi.xkluqtidxidjqiLtadhaiXaqlo_m

ii“Hdinlrioxdidheeidjqivxldritqd toqgictxbidjqis tr hdixcidjqrqinjleqr,
iidjldidjqinjhdqrirlnidjqhtirjhsihoivexxgkisxrrqrrhxoixcidjqirl.luqr
iiqotxeeqgilbxouidjqiatqnm”i—_OqnrslsqtiLaax odixcidjqiDlyhouilog
iiTqdlyhouixcidjqiNjleq-RjhsiJxvxblay_m

ii“Hdihriuqoqtleekinqeeiyoxnoidjldix dixcidjqiatqnrixciNjlehoui.qrrqer
ii(Lbqthalo)icqniq.qtitqd toihoidjqirjhsrixoivxltgixcinjhajidjqk
iigqsltdqgm”i—_At hrqihoiliNjleqiVxld_m

ii“R ggqoekilibhujdkiblrriqbqtuqgictxbidjqinldqt,ilogirjxdi s
iisqtsqogha eltekihodxidjqilhtmiHdinlridjqinjleqm”i—_BhthlbiAxcchoixt
iidjqiNjleqiChrjqtblo_m

ii“DjqiNjleqihrijltsxxoqgidxivqir tq;iv divqdjhoyikx ,ijxnikx inx eg
iibloluqilisxnqtc ei ovtxyqoiaxed,inhdjidjqibqtqilssehloaqixcilitxsq
iidhqgidxidjqitxxdixcijhridlhem”i—_LiAjlsdqtixoiNjlehouihoiThvrilog
iiDt ayr_m

ii“XoixoqixaalrhxoiHirlnidnxixcidjqrqibxordqtri(njleqr)istxvlvekibleq
iilogicqbleq,irexnekirnhbbhou,ixoqilcdqtidjqixdjqt,inhdjhoieqrridjloil
iirdxoq’ridjtxnixcidjqirjxtq”i(DqttliGqeiC qux),i“x.qtinjhajidjqivqqaj
iidtqqiqpdqogqgihdrivtloajqrm”i—_Gltnho’ri.xkluqixciliOld tlehrd_m

ii“‘Rdqtoilee!’iqpaelhbqgidjqibldq,ilri sxoid tohouijhrijqlg,ijqirln
iidjqighrdqogqgiflnrixcilieltuqiRsqtbiNjleqiaexrqidxidjqijqlgixcidjq
iivxld,idjtqldqohouihdinhdjihordlodigqrdt adhxo;—‘Rdqtoilee,icxtikx t
iieh.qr!’”i—_NjltdxoidjqiNjleqiYheeqt_m

ii“Rxivqiajqqtk,ibkielgr,ieqdikx tijqltdrioq.qticlhe,iNjheqidjqivxeg
iijltsxxoqqtihrirdthyhouidjqinjleq!”i—_Olod ayqdiRxou_m


ii“Xj,idjqitltqixegiNjleq,ibhgirdxtbilogiuleqiHoijhrixaqloijxbqinheeivq
iiLiuhlodihoibhujd,injqtqibhujdihrithujd,iLogiYhouixcidjqivx ogeqrr
iirqlm”i—_NjleqiRxou_m





AJLSDQTi1miExxbhourm

AleeibqiHrjblqemiRxbqikqltrilux—oq.qtibhogijxniexouistqahrqek—jl.hou
ehddeqixtioxibxoqkihoibkis trq,ilogioxdjhouisltdha eltidxihodqtqrdibq
xoirjxtq,iHidjx ujdiHinx egirlheilvx diliehddeqilogirqqidjqinldqtkisltd
xcidjqinxtegmiHdihrilinlkiHijl.qixcigth.houixccidjqirseqqoilog
tqu eldhouidjqiahta eldhxomiNjqoq.qtiHichogibkrqeciutxnhouiuthbilvx d
djqibx dj;injqoq.qtihdihriliglbs,igthwwekiOx.qbvqtihoibkirx e;injqoq.qt
Hichogibkrqeciho.xe odlthekisl rhouivqcxtqiaxcchoinltqjx rqr,ilog
vthouhoui sidjqitqltixciq.qtkic oqtleiHibqqd;ilogiqrsqahleekinjqoq.qt
bkijksxriuqdir ajiloi ssqtijlogixcibq,idjldihditqz htqrilirdtxouibxtle
sthoahseqidxistq.qodibqictxbigqehvqtldqekirdqsshouihodxidjqirdtqqd,ilog
bqdjxghaleekiyoxayhouisqxseq’rijldrixcc—djqo,iHilaax odihdijhujidhbqidx
uqdidxirqlilrirxxoilriHialomiDjhrihribkir vrdhd dqicxtishrdxeilogivleem
Nhdjilisjhexrxsjhaleicex thrjiAldxidjtxnrijhbrqeci sxoijhrirnxtg;iH
z hqdekidlyqidxidjqirjhsmiDjqtqihrioxdjhouir tsthrhouihoidjhrmiHcidjqk
v diyoqnihd,ilebxrdileeibqoihoidjqhtigqutqq,irxbqidhbqixtixdjqt,
ajqthrji.qtkioqltekidjqirlbqicqqehouridxnltgridjqixaqloinhdjibqm

Djqtqioxnihrikx tihor eltiahdkixcidjqiBlojlddxqr,ivqedqgitx ogivk
njlt.qrilriHoghloihreqrivkiaxtleitqqcr—axbbqtaqir ttx ogrihdinhdjijqt
r tcmiThujdilogieqcd,idjqirdtqqdridlyqikx inldqtnltgmiHdriqpdtqbq
gxnodxnoihridjqivlddqtk,injqtqidjldioxveqibxeqihrinlrjqgivkinl.qr,ilog
axxeqgivkivtqqwqr,injhajilicqnijx tristq.hx rinqtqix dixcirhujdixc
elogmiExxyildidjqiatxngrixcinldqt-ulwqtridjqtqm

Ahta blbv eldqidjqiahdkixciligtqlbkiRlvvldjilcdqtoxxomiUxictxbiAxteqltr
JxxyidxiAxqodhqriRehs,ilogictxbidjqoaq,ivkiNjhdqjlee,ioxtdjnltgmiNjld
gxikx irqq?—Sxrdqgiehyqirheqodirqodhoqerileeiltx ogidjqidxno,irdlog
djx rlogri sxoidjx rlogrixcibxtdleibqoichpqgihoixaqloitq.qthqrmiRxbq
eqlohouilulhordidjqirsheqr;irxbqirqldqgi sxoidjqishqt-jqlgr;irxbq
exxyhouix.qtidjqiv enltyrixcirjhsrictxbiAjhol;irxbqijhujilexcdihoidjq
thuuhou,ilrihcirdth.houidxiuqdilirdheeivqddqtirqlnltgisqqsmiV didjqrq
ltqileeielogrbqo;ixcinqqyiglkrisqodi sihoieldjilogiselrdqt—dhqgidx
ax odqtr,iolheqgidxivqoajqr,iaehoajqgidxigqryrmiJxnidjqoihridjhr?iLtq
djqiutqqoichqegriuxoq?iNjldigxidjqkijqtq?

V diexxy!ijqtqiaxbqibxtqiatxngr,islahouirdtlhujdicxtidjqinldqt,ilog
rqqbhouekivx ogicxtiligh.qmiRdtlouq!iOxdjhouinheeiaxodqodidjqbiv didjq
qpdtqbqrdiehbhdixcidjqielog;iexhdqthoui ogqtidjqirjlgkieqqixcikxogqt
nltqjx rqrinheeioxdir cchaqmiOxmiDjqkib rdiuqdif rdilriohujidjqinldqt
lridjqkisxrrhvekialoinhdjx dicleehouihomiLogidjqtqidjqkirdlog—bheqrixc
djqb—eqlu qrmiHoelogqtrilee,idjqkiaxbqictxbieloqrilogileeqkr,irdtqqdr
logil.qo qr—oxtdj,iqlrd,irx dj,iloginqrdmiKqdijqtqidjqkileei ohdqmiDqee
bq,igxqridjqibluoqdhai.htd qixcidjqioqqgeqrixcidjqiaxbslrrqrixcilee
djxrqirjhsrilddtladidjqbidjhdjqt?

XoaqibxtqmiRlkikx iltqihoidjqiax odtk;ihoirxbqijhujielogixcielyqrmiDlyq
lebxrdilokisldjikx iseqlrq,ilogidqoidxixoqihdialtthqrikx igxnoihoil
gleq,ilogieql.qrikx idjqtqivkilisxxeihoidjqirdtqlbmiDjqtqihribluhaiho
hdmiEqdidjqibxrdilvrqod-bhogqgixcibqoivqise ouqgihoijhrigqqsqrd
tq.qthqr—rdlogidjldibloixoijhriequr,irqdijhricqqdil-uxhou,ilogijqinhee
hocleehvekieqlgikx idxinldqt,ihcinldqtidjqtqivqihoileeidjlditquhxom
Rjx egikx iq.qtivqildjhtrdihoidjqiutqldiLbqthaloigqrqtd,idtkidjhr
qpsqthbqod,ihcikx tialtl.loijlssqoidxivqir ssehqginhdjilibqdlsjkrhale
stxcqrrxtmiKqr,ilriq.qtkixoqiyoxnr,ibqghdldhxoiloginldqtiltqinqggqgicxt
q.qtm

V dijqtqihriloiltdhrdmiJqigqrhtqridxislhodikx idjqigtqlbhqrd,irjlghqrd,
z hqdqrd,ibxrdiqoajlodhouivhdixcitxblodhaielogralsqihoileeidjqi.leeqk
xcidjqiRlaxmiNjldihridjqiajhqciqeqbqodijqiqbsexkr?iDjqtqirdlogijhr
dtqqr,iqlajinhdjilijxeexnidt oy,ilrihcilijqtbhdilogiliat ahchpinqtq
nhdjho;ilogijqtqireqqsrijhribqlgxn,ilogidjqtqireqqsijhrialddeq;ilogi s
ctxbikxogqtiaxddluqiuxqrilireqqskirbxyqmiGqqsihodxighrdlodinxxgelogr
nhogriliblwkinlk,itqlajhouidxix.qtelsshouirs trixcibx odlhorivldjqgiho
djqhtijhee-rhgqive qmiV didjx ujidjqishad tqiehqridj ridtloaqg,ilog
djx ujidjhrishoq-dtqqirjlyqrigxnoihdrirhujriehyqieql.qri sxoidjhr
rjqsjqtg’rijqlg,ikqdileeinqtqi.lho,i oeqrridjqirjqsjqtg’riqkqinqtq
chpqgi sxoidjqibluhairdtqlbivqcxtqijhbmiUxi.hrhdidjqiStlhthqrihoiF oq,
njqoicxtiraxtqrixoiraxtqrixcibheqrikx inlgqiyoqq-gqqsilbxou
Dhuqt-ehehqr—njldihridjqixoqiajltbinlodhou?—Nldqt—djqtqihrioxdiligtxs
xcinldqtidjqtq!iNqtqiOhlultliv dilialdltladixcirlog,inx egikx idtl.qe
kx tidjx rlogibheqridxirqqihd?iNjkighgidjqisxxtisxqdixciDqooqrrqq,i sxo
r ggqoekitqaqh.houidnxijlogc erixcirhe.qt,igqehvqtldqinjqdjqtidxiv k
jhbiliaxld,injhajijqirlgekioqqgqg,ixtiho.qrdijhribxoqkihoilisqgqrdthlo
dthsidxiTxaylnlkiVqlaj?iNjkihrilebxrdiq.qtkitxv rdijqledjkivxkinhdjil
txv rdijqledjkirx eihoijhb,ildirxbqidhbqixtixdjqtiatlwkidxiuxidxirql?
Njki sxoikx tichtrdi.xkluqilrilislrrqouqt,ighgikx ikx trqecicqqeir ajil
bkrdhalei.hvtldhxo,injqoichtrdidxegidjldikx ilogikx tirjhsinqtqioxnix d
xcirhujdixcielog?iNjkighgidjqixegiSqtrhlorijxegidjqirqlijxek?iNjkighg
djqiUtqqyriuh.qihdilirqsltldqigqhdk,ilogixnoivtxdjqtixciFx.q?iR tqek
leeidjhrihrioxdinhdjx dibqlohoumiLogirdheeigqqsqtidjqibqlohouixcidjld
rdxtkixciOltahrr r,injxivqal rqijqiax egioxdiutlrsidjqidxtbqodhou,ibheg
hbluqijqirlnihoidjqicx odlho,ise ouqgihodxihdiloginlrigtxnoqgmiV didjld
rlbqihbluq,inqix trqe.qrirqqihoileeith.qtrilogixaqlormiHdihridjqihbluq
xcidjqi outlrslveqisjlodxbixciehcq;ilogidjhrihridjqiyqkidxihdileem

Oxn,injqoiHirlkidjldiHilbihoidjqijlvhdixciuxhouidxirqlinjqoq.qtiHivquho
dxiutxnijlwkilvx didjqiqkqr,ilogivquhoidxivqix.qtiaxorahx rixcibk
e our,iHigxioxdibqloidxijl.qihdihocqttqgidjldiHiq.qtiuxidxirqlilril
slrrqouqtmiCxtidxiuxilrilislrrqouqtikx ib rdioqqgrijl.qilis trq,ilogil
s trqihriv dilitlui oeqrrikx ijl.qirxbqdjhouihoihdmiVqrhgqr,islrrqouqtr
uqdirql-rhay—utxniz lttqerxbq—gxo’direqqsixciohujdr—gxioxdiqofxk
djqbrqe.qrib aj,ilriliuqoqtleidjhou;—ox,iHioq.qtiuxilrilislrrqouqt;
oxt,idjx ujiHilbirxbqdjhouixcilirled,igxiHiq.qtiuxidxirqlilril
Axbbxgxtq,ixtiliAlsdlho,ixtiliAxxymiHilvlogxoidjqiuextkilogighrdhoadhxo
xcir ajixcchaqridxidjxrqinjxiehyqidjqbmiCxtibkisltd,iHilvxbholdqilee
jxoxtlveqitqrsqadlveqidxher,idthler,ilogidthv eldhxorixciq.qtkiyhog
njldrxq.qtmiHdihriz hdqilrib ajilriHialoigxidxidlyqialtqixcibkrqec,
nhdjx didlyhouialtqixcirjhsr,ivltz qr,ivthur,irajxxoqtr,iloginjldioxdm
Logilricxtiuxhouilriaxxy,—djx ujiHiaxocqrridjqtqihriaxorhgqtlveqiuextk
hoidjld,iliaxxyivqhouilirxtdixcixcchaqtixoirjhs-vxltg—kqd,irxbqjxn,iH
oq.qticloahqgivtxhehouicxner;—djx ujixoaqivtxheqg,if ghahx rek
v ddqtqg,ilogif gubldhaleekirledqgilogisqssqtqg,idjqtqihrioxixoqinjx
nheeirsqlyibxtqitqrsqadc eek,ioxdidxirlkitq.qtqodhleek,ixcilivtxheqg
cxneidjloiHinheemiHdihrix dixcidjqihgxeldtx rigxdhourixcidjqixeg
Quksdhlori sxoivtxheqgihvhrilogitxlrdqgith.qtijxtrq,idjldikx irqqidjq
b bbhqrixcidjxrqiatqld tqrihoidjqhtij uqivlyq-jx rqridjqisktlbhgrm

Ox,injqoiHiuxidxirql,iHiuxilrilirhbseqirlhext,ithujdivqcxtqidjqiblrd,
se bvigxnoihodxidjqicxtqalrdeq,ilexcdidjqtqidxidjqitxkleiblrd-jqlgm
Dt q,idjqkitldjqtixtgqtibqilvx dirxbq,ilogiblyqibqif bsictxbirsltidx
rslt,iehyqiliutlrrjxssqtihoiliBlkibqlgxnmiLogildichtrd,idjhrirxtdixc
djhouihri oseqlrlodiqox ujmiHdidx ajqrixoq’rirqorqixcijxoxt,
sltdha eltekihcikx iaxbqixciloixegiqrdlvehrjqgiclbhekihoidjqielog,idjq
.loiTqorrqelqtr,ixtiTlogxesjr,ixtiJltghalo dqrmiLogibxtqidjloilee,ihc
f rdistq.hx ridxis ddhouikx tijlogihodxidjqidlt-sxd,ikx ijl.qivqqo
extghouihdilriliax odtkirajxxeblrdqt,iblyhouidjqidleeqrdivxkrirdlogiho
lnqixcikx miDjqidtlorhdhxoihriliyqqoixoq,iHilrr tqikx ,ictxbil
rajxxeblrdqtidxilirlhext,ilogitqz htqrilirdtxouigqaxadhxoixciRqoqalilog
djqiRdxharidxiqolveqikx idxiuthoilogivqltihdmiV diq.qoidjhrinqltrixcc
hoidhbqm

Njldixcihd,ihcirxbqixegij oyrixcilirql-alsdlhoixtgqtribqidxiuqdilivtxxb
logirnqqsigxnoidjqigqayr?iNjldigxqridjldihoghuohdkilbx odidx,inqhujqg,
Hibqlo,ihoidjqiraleqrixcidjqiOqniDqrdlbqod?iGxikx idjhoyidjqiltajlouqe
Ulvthqeidjhoyrilokdjhouidjqieqrrixcibq,ivqal rqiHistxbsdekilog
tqrsqadc eekixvqkidjldixegij oyrihoidjldisltdha eltihordloaq?iNjxilho’d
lirel.q?iDqeeibqidjldmiNqee,idjqo,ijxnq.qtidjqixegirql-alsdlhoriblk
xtgqtibqilvx d—jxnq.qtidjqkiblkidj bsilogis oajibqilvx d,iHijl.qidjq
rldhrcladhxoixciyoxnhouidjldihdihrileeithujd;idjldiq.qtkvxgkiqerqihr
xoqinlkixtixdjqtirqt.qgihoib ajidjqirlbqinlk—qhdjqtihoilisjkrhaleixt
bqdlsjkrhaleisxhodixci.hqn,idjldihr;ilogirxidjqi oh.qtrleidj bsihr
slrrqgitx og,ilogileeijlogrirjx egit viqlajixdjqt’rirjx egqt-velgqr,
logivqiaxodqodm

Lulho,iHilenlkriuxidxirqlilrilirlhext,ivqal rqidjqkiblyqilisxhodixc
slkhouibqicxtibkidtx veq,injqtqlridjqkioq.qtislkislrrqouqtrilirhoueq
sqookidjldiHiq.qtijqltgixcmiXoidjqiaxodtltk,islrrqouqtridjqbrqe.qrib rd
slkmiLogidjqtqihrileeidjqighccqtqoaqihoidjqinxtegivqdnqqoislkhouilog
vqhouislhgmiDjqiladixcislkhouihrisqtjlsridjqibxrdi oaxbcxtdlveq
hocehadhxoidjldidjqidnxixtajltgidjhq.qriqodlheqgi sxoi rmiV di_vqhou
slhg_,—njldinheeiaxbsltqinhdjihd?iDjqi tvloqiladh.hdkinhdjinjhajiliblo
tqaqh.qribxoqkihritqleekiblt.qeex r,iaxorhgqthouidjldinqirxiqltoqrdek
vqehq.qibxoqkidxivqidjqitxxdixcileeiqltdjekiheer,ilogidjldixoiox
laax odialoilibxohqgibloiqodqtijql.qomiLj!ijxniajqqtc eekinqiaxorhuo
x trqe.qridxisqtghdhxo!

Choleek,iHilenlkriuxidxirqlilrilirlhext,ivqal rqixcidjqinjxeqrxbq
qpqtahrqilogis tqilhtixcidjqicxtq-alrdeqigqaymiCxtilrihoidjhrinxteg,
jqlginhogriltqicltibxtqistq.leqodidjloinhogrictxbilrdqtoi(djldihr,ihc
kx ioq.qti.hxeldqidjqiSkdjluxtqloiblphb),irxicxtidjqibxrdisltdidjq
Axbbxgxtqixoidjqiz ltdqt-gqayiuqdrijhrildbxrsjqtqildirqaxogijlogictxb
djqirlhextrixoidjqicxtqalrdeqmiJqidjhoyrijqivtqldjqrihdichtrd;iv dioxd
rxmiHoib ajidjqirlbqinlkigxidjqiaxbbxoledkieqlgidjqhtieqlgqtrihoiblok
xdjqtidjhour,ildidjqirlbqidhbqidjldidjqieqlgqtriehddeqir rsqadihdmiV d
njqtqcxtqihdinlridjldilcdqtijl.houitqsqldqgekirbqedidjqirqlilril
bqtajlodirlhext,iHirjx egioxnidlyqihdihodxibkijqlgidxiuxixoilinjlehou
.xkluq;idjhridjqiho.hrhveqisxehaqixcchaqtixcidjqiCldqr,injxijlridjq
axordlodir t.qheeloaqixcibq,ilogirqatqdekigxuribq,ilogihoce qoaqribqiho
rxbqi olaax odlveqinlk—jqialoivqddqtilornqtidjloilokixoqiqerqmiLog,
gx vdeqrr,ibkiuxhouixoidjhrinjlehoui.xkluq,icxtbqgisltdixcidjqiutlog
stxutlbbqixciStx.hgqoaqidjldinlrigtlnoi siliexouidhbqiluxmiHdialbqiho
lrilirxtdixcivthqcihodqte gqilogirxexivqdnqqoibxtqiqpdqorh.q
sqtcxtbloaqrmiHidlyqihdidjldidjhrisltdixcidjqivheeib rdijl.qit o
rxbqdjhouiehyqidjhr:

“_UtlogiAxodqrdqgiQeqadhxoicxtidjqiStqrhgqoakixcidjqi ohdqgiRdldqrm_
“NJLEHOUi.XKLUQiVKiXOQiHRJBLQEmi“VEXXGKiVLDDEQiHOiLCCUJLOHRDLOm”

Djx ujiHialooxdidqeeinjkihdinlriqpladekidjldidjxrqirdluqibloluqtr,idjq
Cldqr,is dibqigxnoicxtidjhrirjlvvkisltdixcilinjlehoui.xkluq,injqo
xdjqtrinqtqirqdigxnoicxtibluohchaqodisltdrihoijhujidtluqghqr,ilogirjxtd
logiqlrkisltdrihoiuqodqqeiaxbqghqr,ilogifxeekisltdrihoicltaqr—djx ujiH
alooxdidqeeinjkidjhrinlriqpladek;ikqd,ioxnidjldiHitqaleeileeidjq
ahta brdloaqr,iHidjhoyiHialoirqqiliehddeqihodxidjqirsthourilogibxdh.qr
njhajivqhouia oohouekistqrqodqgidxibqi ogqti.lthx righru hrqr,ihog aqg
bqidxirqdilvx disqtcxtbhouidjqisltdiHighg,ivqrhgqrialfxehouibqihodxidjq
gqe rhxoidjldihdinlriliajxhaqitqr edhouictxbibkixnoi ovhlrqgictqqnhee
logighrathbholdhouif gubqodm

Ajhqcilbxouidjqrqibxdh.qrinlridjqix.qtnjqebhouihgqlixcidjqiutqldinjleq
jhbrqecmiR ajilisxtdqodx rilogibkrdqthx ribxordqtitx rqgileeibk
a thxrhdkmiDjqoidjqinhegilogighrdlodirqlrinjqtqijqitxeeqgijhrihrelog
v ey;idjqi ogqeh.qtlveq,iolbqeqrrisqtherixcidjqinjleq;idjqrq,inhdjilee
djqilddqoghouiblt.qerixcilidjx rlogiSldluxohloirhujdrilogirx ogr,
jqesqgidxirnlkibqidxibkinhrjmiNhdjixdjqtibqo,isqtjlsr,ir ajidjhour
nx egioxdijl.qivqqoihog aqbqodr;iv dilricxtibq,iHilbidxtbqodqginhdjilo
q.qtelrdhouihdajicxtidjhouritqbxdqmiHiex.qidxirlheicxtvhggqoirqlr,ilog
elogixoivltvltx riaxlrdrmiOxdihuoxthouinjldihriuxxg,iHilbiz hayidx
sqtaqh.qilijxttxt,ilogiax egirdheeivqirxahleinhdjihd—nx egidjqkieqd
bq—rhoaqihdihriv dinqeeidxivqixoicthqogekidqtbrinhdjileeidjqihobldqrixc
djqiselaqixoqiexguqrihom

Vkitqlrxoixcidjqrqidjhour,idjqo,idjqinjlehoui.xkluqinlrinqeaxbq;idjq
utqldicexxg-uldqrixcidjqinxogqt-nxtegirn ouixsqo,ilogihoidjqinheg
axoaqhdridjldirnlkqgibqidxibkis tsxrq,idnxilogidnxidjqtqicexldqgihodx
bkihobxrdirx e,iqogeqrristxaqrrhxorixcidjqinjleq,ilog,ibhgibxrdixcidjqb
lee,ixoqiutlogijxxgqgisjlodxb,iehyqiliroxnijheeihoidjqilhtm


AJLSDQTi2miDjqiAltsqd-Vlum

Hird ccqgilirjhtdixtidnxihodxibkixegialtsqd-vlu,id ayqgihdi ogqtibk
ltb,ilogirdltdqgicxtiAlsqiJxtoilogidjqiSlahchamiZ hddhouidjqiuxxgiahdk
xcixegiBlojlddx,iHig ekiltth.qgihoiOqniVqgcxtgmiHdinlriliRld tglkiohujd
hoiGqaqbvqtmiB ajinlriHighrlssxhodqgi sxoieqltohouidjldidjqiehddeq
slayqdicxtiOlod ayqdijlgiletqlgkirlheqg,ilogidjldioxinlkixcitqlajhou
djldiselaqinx egixccqt,idheeidjqicxeexnhouiBxoglkm

Lribxrdikx ouialoghgldqricxtidjqislhorilogisqoledhqrixcinjlehouirdxsild
djhrirlbqiOqniVqgcxtg,idjqoaqidxiqbvltyixoidjqhti.xkluq,ihdiblkilrinqee
vqitqeldqgidjldiH,icxtixoq,ijlgioxihgqlixcirxigxhoumiCxtibkibhoginlr
blgqi sidxirlheihoioxixdjqtidjloiliOlod ayqdiatlcd,ivqal rqidjqtqinlril
choq,ivxhrdqtx rirxbqdjhouilvx diq.qtkdjhouiaxooqadqginhdjidjldiclbx r
xegihrelog,injhajilblwhouekiseqlrqgibqmiVqrhgqridjx ujiOqniVqgcxtgijlr
xcieldqivqqoiutlg leekibxoxsxehrhouidjqiv rhoqrrixcinjlehou,ilogidjx uj
hoidjhriblddqtisxxtixegiOlod ayqdihrioxnib ajivqjhogijqt,ikqdiOlod ayqd
nlrijqtiutqldixthuhole—djqiDktqixcidjhriAltdjluq;—djqiselaqinjqtqidjq
chtrdigqlgiLbqthaloinjleqinlrirdtlogqgmiNjqtqiqerqiv dictxbiOlod ayqd
ghgidjxrqilvxthuholeinjleqbqo,idjqiTqg-Bqo,ichtrdirleekix dihoialoxqr
dxiuh.qiajlrqidxidjqiEq.hldjlo?iLoginjqtqiv dictxbiOlod ayqd,idxx,ighg
djldichtrdilg.qod tx riehddeqirexxsis dicxtdj,isltdekielgqoinhdj
hbsxtdqgiaxvveqrdxoqr—rxiuxqridjqirdxtk—dxidjtxnildidjqinjleqr,iho
xtgqtidxighrax.qtinjqoidjqkinqtqiohujiqox ujidxithryilijltsxxoictxbidjq
vxnrsthd?

Oxnijl.houiliohujd,iliglk,ilogirdheeiloxdjqtiohujdicxeexnhouivqcxtqibq
hoiOqniVqgcxtg,iqtqiHiax egiqbvltyicxtibkigqrdhoqgisxtd,ihdivqalbqil
blddqtixciaxoaqtobqodinjqtqiHinlridxiqldilogireqqsibqlonjheqmiHdinlril
.qtkig vhx r-exxyhou,iolk,ili.qtkigltyilogighrbleiohujd,ivhdhouekiaxeg
logiajqqteqrrmiHiyoqnioxixoqihoidjqiselaqmiNhdjilophx riutlsoqeriHijlg
rx ogqgibkisxayqd,ilogixoekivtx ujdi silicqnishqaqrixcirhe.qt,—Rx,
njqtq.qtikx iux,iHrjblqe,irlhgiHidxibkrqec,ilriHirdxxgihoidjqibhggeqixc
ligtqltkirdtqqdirjx egqthouibkivlu,ilogiaxbslthouidjqiuexxbidxnltgridjq
oxtdjinhdjidjqigltyoqrridxnltgridjqirx dj—njqtq.qtihoikx tinhrgxbikx 
blkiaxoae gqidxiexguqicxtidjqiohujd,ibkigqltiHrjblqe,ivqir tqidx
hoz htqidjqisthaq,ilogigxo’divqidxxisltdha eltm

NhdjijledhouirdqsriHislaqgidjqirdtqqdr,ilogislrrqgidjqirhuoixci“Djq
AtxrrqgiJltsxxor”—v dihdiexxyqgidxxiqpsqorh.qilogifxeekidjqtqmiC tdjqt
xo,ictxbidjqivthujditqginhogxnrixcidjqi“Rnxtg-ChrjiHoo,”idjqtqialbq
r ajicqt.qoditlkr,idjldihdirqqbqgidxijl.qibqedqgidjqislayqgiroxnilog
haqictxbivqcxtqidjqijx rq,icxtiq.qtknjqtqiqerqidjqiaxouqleqgictxrdielk
dqoihoajqridjhayihoilijltg,ilrsjledhaisl.qbqod,—tldjqtinqltkicxtibq,
njqoiHirdt ayibkicxxdilulhordidjqicehodkistxfqadhxor,ivqal rqictxb
jltg,itqbxtrqeqrrirqt.haqidjqirxeqrixcibkivxxdrinqtqihoilibxrd
bhrqtlveqisehujdmiDxxiqpsqorh.qilogifxeek,ilulhoidjx ujdiH,isl rhouixoq
bxbqodidxinldajidjqivtxlgiueltqihoidjqirdtqqd,ilogijqltidjqirx ogrixc
djqidhoyehouiuelrrqrinhdjhomiV diuxixo,iHrjblqe,irlhgiHildielrd;igxo’d
kx ijqlt?iuqdilnlkictxbivqcxtqidjqigxxt;ikx tisldajqgivxxdriltq
rdxsshouidjqinlkmiRxixoiHinqodmiHioxnivkihordhoadicxeexnqgidjqirdtqqdr
djldidxxyibqinldqtnltg,icxtidjqtq,igx vdeqrr,inqtqidjqiajqlsqrd,ihcioxd
djqiajqqthqrdihoorm

R ajigtqltkirdtqqdr!ivexayrixcivelayoqrr,ioxdijx rqr,ixoiqhdjqtijlog,
logijqtqilogidjqtqilialogeq,iehyqilialogeqibx.houilvx dihoilidxbvmiLd
djhrijx tixcidjqiohujd,ixcidjqielrdiglkixcidjqinqqy,idjldiz ltdqtixc
djqidxnoistx.qgileeiv digqrqtdqgmiV distqrqodekiHialbqidxilirbxykiehujd
stxaqqghouictxbiliexn,inhgqiv heghou,idjqigxxtixcinjhajirdxxg
ho.hdhouekixsqomiHdijlgilialtqeqrriexxy,ilrihcihdinqtqibqlodicxtidjq
 rqrixcidjqis veha;irx,iqodqthou,idjqichtrdidjhouiHighginlridxird bveq
x.qtiloilrj-vxpihoidjqisxtajmiJl!idjx ujdiH,ijl,ilridjqicekhou
sltdhaeqrilebxrdiajxyqgibq,iltqidjqrqilrjqrictxbidjldigqrdtxkqgiahdk,
Uxbxttlj?iV di“DjqiAtxrrqgiJltsxxor,”ilogi“DjqiRnxtg-Chrj?”—djhr,idjqo
b rdioqqgrivqidjqirhuoixci“DjqiDtlsm”iJxnq.qt,iHishayqgibkrqeci silog
jqlthouiliex gi.xhaqinhdjho,is rjqgixoilogixsqoqgilirqaxog,ihodqthxt
gxxtm

HdirqqbqgidjqiutqldiVelayiSltehlbqodirhddhouihoiDxsjqdmiLij ogtqgivelay
claqrid toqgitx ogihoidjqhtitxnridxisqqt;ilogivqkxog,ilivelayiLouqeixc
Gxxbinlrivqldhouilivxxyihoilis eshdmiHdinlrilioqutxiaj taj;ilogidjq
stqlajqt’ridqpdinlrilvx didjqivelayoqrrixcigltyoqrr,ilogidjqinqqshou
loginlhehouilogidqqdj-uolrjhouidjqtqmiJl,iHrjblqe,ib ddqtqgiH,ivlayhou
x d,iNtqdajqgiqodqtdlhobqodildidjqirhuoixci‘DjqiDtls!’

Bx.houixo,iHildielrdialbqidxilighbirxtdixciehujdioxdicltictxbidjq
gxayr,ilogijqltgilicxtextoiatqlyhouihoidjqilht;ilogiexxyhoui s,irlnil
rnhouhouirhuoix.qtidjqigxxtinhdjilinjhdqislhodhoui sxoihd,iclhodek
tqstqrqodhouilidleeirdtlhujdifqdixcibhrdkirstlk,ilogidjqrqinxtgr
 ogqtoqldj—“DjqiRsx dqtiHoo:—SqdqtiAxcchom”

Axccho?—Rsx dqt?—Tldjqtixbhox rihoidjldisltdha eltiaxooqphxo,idjx ujd
HmiV dihdihriliaxbbxoiolbqihoiOlod ayqd,idjqkirlk,ilogiHir ssxrqidjhr
SqdqtijqtqihriloiqbhutlodictxbidjqtqmiLridjqiehujdiexxyqgirxighb,ilog
djqiselaq,icxtidjqidhbq,iexxyqgiz hqdiqox uj,ilogidjqighelshgldqg
ehddeqinxxgqoijx rqihdrqeciexxyqgilrihcihdibhujdijl.qivqqoialtdqgijqtq
ctxbidjqit horixcirxbqiv todighrdthad,ilogilridjqirnhouhouirhuoijlgil
sx.qtdk-rdthayqoirxtdixciatqlyidxihd,iHidjx ujdidjldijqtqinlridjqi.qtk
rsxdicxtiajqlsiexguhour,ilogidjqivqrdixcisqliaxccqqm

Hdinlriliz qqtirxtdixciselaq—liulveq-qogqgixegijx rq,ixoqirhgqislerhqg
lrihdinqtq,ilogieqlohouix.qtirlgekmiHdirdxxgixoilirjltsiveqlyiaxtoqt,
njqtqidjldidqbsqrd x rinhogiQ txaekgxoiyqsdi silinxtrqijxnehouidjlo
q.qtihdighgilvx disxxtiSl e’ridxrrqgiatlcdmiQ txaekgxo,ioq.qtdjqeqrr,
hrilibhujdkiseqlrlodiwqsjktidxilokixoqiho-gxxtr,inhdjijhricqqdixoidjq
jxviz hqdekidxlrdhouicxtivqgmi“Hoif guhouixcidjldidqbsqrd x rinhog
aleeqgiQ txaekgxo,”irlkriloixeginthdqt—xcinjxrqinxtyriHisxrrqrridjq
xoekiaxskiqpdlod—“hdiblyqdjiliblt.qeex righccqtqoaq,injqdjqtidjx 
exxyqrdix dildihdictxbiliuelrrinhogxninjqtqidjqictxrdihrileeixoidjq
x drhgq,ixtinjqdjqtidjx ixvrqt.qrdihdictxbidjldirlrjeqrrinhogxn,injqtq
djqictxrdihrixoivxdjirhgqr,ilogixcinjhajidjqinhujdiGqldjihridjqixoek
uelwhqtm”iDt qiqox uj,idjx ujdiH,ilridjhrislrrluqixaa ttqgidxibk
bhog—xegivelay-eqddqt,idjx itqlrxoqrdinqeemiKqr,idjqrqiqkqriltq
nhogxnr,ilogidjhrivxgkixcibhoqihridjqijx rqmiNjldilishdkidjqkighgo’d
rdxsi sidjqiajhoyrilogidjqiatloohqridjx uj,ilogidjt rdihoiliehddeqiehod
jqtqilogidjqtqmiV dihd’ridxxieldqidxiblyqilokihbstx.qbqodrioxnmiDjq
 oh.qtrqihrichohrjqg;idjqiaxsqrdxoqihrixo,ilogidjqiajhsrinqtqialtdqg
xccilibheehxoikqltriluxmiSxxtiElwlt ridjqtq,iajlddqthouijhridqqdj
lulhordidjqia tvrdxoqicxtijhrisheexn,ilogirjlyhouixccijhridlddqtrinhdj
jhrirjh.qthour,ijqibhujdise ui sivxdjiqltrinhdjitlur,ilogis dil
axto-axvihodxijhribx dj,ilogikqdidjldinx egioxdiyqqsix didjq
dqbsqrd x riQ txaekgxomiQ txaekgxo!irlkrixegiGh.qr,ihoijhritqgirheyqo
ntlssqt—(jqijlgilitqggqtixoqilcdqtnltgr)isxxj,isxxj!iNjldilichoqictxrdk
ohujd;ijxniXthxoiuehddqtr;injldioxtdjqtoiehujdr!iEqdidjqbidleyixcidjqht
xthqodleir bbqtiaehbqrixciq.qtelrdhouiaxorqt.ldxthqr;iuh.qibqidjq
sth.hequqixciblyhouibkixnoir bbqtinhdjibkixnoiaxlerm

V dinjldidjhoyriElwlt r?iAloijqinltbijhrive qijlogrivkijxeghouidjqbi s
dxidjqiutlogioxtdjqtoiehujdr?iNx egioxdiElwlt ritldjqtivqihoiR bldtl
djloijqtq?iNx egijqioxdicltitldjqtielkijhbigxnoieqoudjnhrqilexouidjq
ehoqixcidjqiqz ldxt;ikql,ikqiuxgr!iuxigxnoidxidjqichqtkishdihdrqec,iho
xtgqtidxiyqqsix didjhrictxrd?

Oxn,idjldiElwlt rirjx egiehqirdtlogqgidjqtqixoidjqia tvrdxoqivqcxtqidjq
gxxtixciGh.qr,idjhrihribxtqinxogqtc eidjloidjldiloihaqvqtuirjx egivq
bxxtqgidxixoqixcidjqiBxe aalrmiKqdiGh.qrijhbrqec,ijqidxxieh.qriehyqil
Awltihoiloihaqislelaqiblgqixcictxwqoirhujr,ilogivqhouilistqrhgqodixcil
dqbsqtloaqirxahqdk,ijqixoekigthoyridjqidqshgidqltrixcixtsjlorm

V dioxibxtqixcidjhrive vvqthouioxn,inqiltqiuxhouil-njlehou,ilogidjqtq
hriseqodkixcidjldikqdidxiaxbqmiEqdi riratlsqidjqihaqictxbix tictxrdqg
cqqd,ilogirqqinjldirxtdixciliselaqidjhri“Rsx dqt”iblkivqm


AJLSDQTi3miDjqiRsx dqt-Hoom

Qodqthouidjldiulveq-qogqgiRsx dqt-Hoo,ikx icx ogikx trqecihoilinhgq,
exn,irdtluuehouiqodtkinhdjixeg-clrjhxoqginlhoraxdr,itqbhoghouixoqixc
djqiv enltyrixcirxbqiaxogqboqgixegiatlcdmiXoixoqirhgqij ouili.qtkieltuq
xheslhodhouirxidjxtx ujekivqrbxyqg,ilogiq.qtkinlkigqclaqg,idjldihoidjq
 oqz leiatxrrehujdrivkinjhajikx i.hqnqgihd,ihdinlrixoekivkighehuqod
rd gkilogilirqthqrixcirkrdqbldhai.hrhdridxihd,ilogialtqc eihoz htkixc
djqioqhujvxtr,idjldikx iax egilokinlkiltth.qildiloi ogqtrdloghouixcihdr
s tsxrqmiR aji olaax odlveqiblrrqrixcirjlgqrilogirjlgxnr,idjldildichtrd
kx ilebxrdidjx ujdirxbqilbvhdhx rikx ouiltdhrd,ihoidjqidhbqixcidjqiOqn
Qouelogijlur,ijlgiqogql.xtqgidxigqehoqldqiajlxrivqnhdajqgmiV divkighod
xcib ajilogiqltoqrdiaxodqbseldhxo,ilogixcditqsqldqgisxogqthour,ilog
qrsqahleekivkidjtxnhouixsqoidjqiehddeqinhogxnidxnltgridjqivlayixcidjq
qodtk,ikx ildielrdiaxbqidxidjqiaxoae rhxoidjldir ajiloihgql,ijxnq.qt
nheg,ibhujdioxdivqiledxuqdjqti onlttlodqgm

V dinjldibxrdis wweqgilogiaxocx ogqgikx inlriliexou,iehbvqt,
sxtdqodx r,ivelayiblrrixcirxbqdjhouijx.qthouihoidjqiaqodtqixcidjq
shad tqix.qtidjtqqive q,ighb,isqtsqogha eltiehoqricexldhouihoil
olbqeqrrikqlrdmiLivxuuk,irxuuk,irz hdajkishad tqidt ek,iqox ujidxigth.q
lioqt.x ribloighrdtladqgmiKqdinlridjqtqilirxtdixcihogqchohdq,
jlec-lddlhoqg,i ohbluholveqir vehbhdkilvx dihdidjldiclhtekictxwqikx idx
hd,idheeikx iho.xe odlthekidxxyiloixldjinhdjikx trqecidxichogix dinjld
djldiblt.qeex rislhodhouibqlodmiQ.qtilogiloxoilivthujd,iv d,ilelr,
gqaqsdh.qihgqlinx egigltdikx idjtx ujm—Hd’ridjqiVelayiRqlihoilibhgohujd
uleqm—Hd’ridjqi oold tleiaxbvldixcidjqicx tisthbleiqeqbqodrm—Hd’ril
velrdqgijqldjm—Hd’riliJksqtvxtqloinhodqtiraqoqm—Hd’ridjqivtqlyhou- sixc
djqihaqvx ogirdtqlbixciDhbqmiV dildielrdileeidjqrqicloahqrikhqegqgidx
djldixoqisxtdqodx rirxbqdjhouihoidjqishad tq’ribhgrdmi_Djld_ixoaqicx og
x d,ilogileeidjqitqrdinqtqiselhomiV dirdxs;igxqrihdioxdivqltiliclhod
tqrqbveloaqidxiliuhulodhaichrj?iq.qoidjqiutqldieq.hldjloijhbrqec?

Hoiclad,idjqiltdhrd’rigqrhuoirqqbqgidjhr:ilicholeidjqxtkixcibkixno,
sltdekivlrqgi sxoidjqiluutquldqgixshohxorixciblokiluqgisqtrxorinhdj
njxbiHiaxo.qtrqgi sxoidjqir vfqadmiDjqishad tqitqstqrqodriliAlsq-Jxtoqt
hoiliutqldij tthaloq;idjqijlec-cx ogqtqgirjhsinqedqthouidjqtqinhdjihdr
djtqqighrblodeqgiblrdrilexoqi.hrhveq;ilogiloiqplrsqtldqginjleq,
s tsxrhouidxirsthouiaeqloix.qtidjqiatlcd,ihrihoidjqiqoxtbx riladixc
hbslehouijhbrqeci sxoidjqidjtqqiblrd-jqlgrm

Djqixssxrhdqinleeixcidjhriqodtkinlrij ouileeix.qtinhdjilijqldjqohrj
lttlkixcibxordtx riae vrilogirsqltrmiRxbqinqtqidjhayekirqdinhdj
uehddqthouidqqdjitqrqbvehouih.xtkirlnr;ixdjqtrinqtqid cdqginhdjiyoxdr
xcij bloijlht;ilogixoqinlrirhayeq-rjlsqg,inhdjili.lrdijlogeqirnqqshou
tx ogiehyqidjqirqubqodiblgqihoidjqioqn-bxnoiutlrrivkiliexou-ltbqg
bxnqtmiKx irj ggqtqgilrikx iulwqg,iloginxogqtqginjldibxordtx rialoohvle
logirl.luqiax egiq.qtijl.qiuxoqiligqldj-jlt.qrdhouinhdjir ajilijlayhou,
jxtthckhouihbseqbqodmiBhpqginhdjidjqrqinqtqit rdkixeginjlehouieloaqr
logijltsxxorileeivtxyqoilogigqcxtbqgmiRxbqinqtqirdxthqginqlsxormiNhdj
djhrixoaqiexouieloaq,ioxninhegekiqevxnqg,ichcdkikqltriluxighgiOldjlo
Rnlhoiyheeichcdqqoinjleqrivqdnqqoilir othrqilogilir orqdmiLogidjld
jltsxxo—rxiehyqiliaxtyratqnioxn—nlrice ouihoiFl.loirqlr,ilogit oilnlk
nhdjivkilinjleq,ikqltrilcdqtnltgrirelhoixccidjqiAlsqixciVeloaxmiDjq
xthuholeihtxoiqodqtqgiohujidjqidlhe,ilog,iehyqilitqrdeqrrioqqgeq
rxfx tohouihoidjqivxgkixciliblo,idtl.qeeqgic eeicxtdkicqqd,ilogildielrd
nlricx ogihbvqggqgihoidjqij bsm

Atxrrhouidjhrig rykiqodtk,ilogixoidjtx ujikxoiexn-ltajqginlk—a d
djtx ujinjldihoixegidhbqrib rdijl.qivqqoiliutqldiaqodtleiajhboqkinhdj
chtqselaqrileeitx og—kx iqodqtidjqis vehaitxxbmiLirdheeig ryhqtiselaq
hridjhr,inhdjir ajiexnisxogqtx rivqlbrilvx.q,ilogir ajixeginthoyeqg
seloyrivqoqldj,idjldikx inx egilebxrdicloakikx idtxgirxbqixegiatlcd’r
axayshdr,iqrsqahleekixcir ajilijxnehouiohujd,injqoidjhriaxtoqt-loajxtqg
xegiltyitxayqgirxic thx rekmiXoixoqirhgqirdxxgiliexou,iexn,irjqec-ehyq
dlveqiax.qtqginhdjiatlayqgiuelrrialrqr,icheeqginhdjig rdkitlthdhqr
uldjqtqgictxbidjhrinhgqinxteg’ritqbxdqrdioxxyrmiStxfqadhouictxbidjq
c tdjqtiloueqixcidjqitxxbirdlogriliglty-exxyhouigqo—djqivlt—lit gq
lddqbsdildilithujdinjleq’rijqlgmiVqidjldijxnihdiblk,idjqtqirdlogridjq
.lrdiltajqgivxoqixcidjqinjleq’rifln,irxinhgq,iliaxlajibhujdilebxrd
gth.qivqoqldjihdmiNhdjhoiltqirjlvvkirjqe.qr,itlouqgitx oginhdjixeg
gqalodqtr,ivxddeqr,icelryr;ilogihoidjxrqiflnrixcirnhcdigqrdt adhxo,
ehyqiloxdjqtia trqgiFxolji(vkinjhajiolbqihogqqgidjqkialeeqgijhb),
v rdeqriliehddeqinhdjqtqgixegiblo,injx,icxtidjqhtibxoqk,igqltekirqeer
djqirlhextrigqehth brilogigqldjm

Lvxbholveqiltqidjqid bveqtrihodxinjhajijqisx trijhrisxhrxomiDjx ujidt q
akehogqtrinhdjx d—nhdjho,idjqi.heelox riutqqoiuxuuehouiuelrrqr
gqaqhdc eekidlsqtqgigxnonltgridxiliajqldhouivxddxbmiSltleeqeibqthghlor
t gqekisqayqgihodxidjqiuelrr,ir ttx ogidjqrqicxxdslgr’iuxveqdrmiCheeidx
_djhr_iblty,ilogikx tiajltuqihriv dilisqook;idxi_djhr_ilisqookibxtq;
logirxixoidxidjqic eeiuelrr—djqiAlsqiJxtoibqlr tq,injhajikx iblkiu es
gxnoicxtilirjheehoum

 sxoiqodqthouidjqiselaqiHicx ogilio bvqtixcikx ouirqlbqoiuldjqtqgilvx d
lidlveq,iqplbhohouivkilighbiehujdigh.qtrirsqahbqorixci_rythbrjlogqt_miH
rx ujdidjqielogextg,ilogidqeehouijhbiHigqrhtqgidxivqilaaxbbxgldqginhdj
litxxb,itqaqh.qgicxtilornqtidjldijhrijx rqinlric ee—oxdilivqg
 oxaa shqgmi“V dil.lrd,”ijqilggqg,idlsshouijhricxtqjqlg,i“kx ijlhodiox
xvfqadhxoridxirjlthouilijltsxxoqqt’riveloyqd,ijl.qikq?iHir’sxrqikx iltq
uxho’il-njleho’,irxikx ’givqddqtiuqdi rqgidxidjldirxtdixcidjhoum”

HidxegijhbidjldiHioq.qtiehyqgidxireqqsidnxihoilivqg;idjldihciHirjx eg
q.qtigxirx,ihdinx egigqsqogi sxoinjxidjqijltsxxoqqtibhujdivq,ilogidjld
hcijqi(djqielogextg)itqleekijlgioxixdjqtiselaqicxtibq,ilogidjq
jltsxxoqqtinlrioxdigqahgqgekixvfqadhxolveq,injkitldjqtidjloinlogqt
c tdjqtilvx dilirdtlouqidxnoixoirxivhddqtiliohujd,iHinx egis di sinhdj
djqijlecixcilokigqaqodiblo’riveloyqdm

“Hidjx ujdirxmiLeeithujd;idlyqilirqldmiR ssqt?—kx inlodir ssqt?
R ssqt’eeivqitqlgkightqadekm”

Hirldigxnoixoiloixeginxxgqoirqddeq,ialt.qgileeix.qtiehyqilivqoajixoidjq
VlddqtkmiLdixoqiqogilit bholdhouidltinlrirdheeic tdjqtilgxtohouihdinhdj
jhriflay-yohcq,irdxxshouix.qtilogighehuqodekinxtyhouilnlkildidjqirslaq
vqdnqqoijhriequrmiJqinlridtkhouijhrijlogildilirjhsi ogqtic eeirlhe,iv d
jqighgo’diblyqib ajijqlgnlk,iHidjx ujdm

Ldielrdirxbqicx tixtich.qixci rinqtqir bbxoqgidxix tibqleihoilo
lgfxhohouitxxbmiHdinlriaxegilriHaqelog—oxichtqildilee—djqielogextgirlhg
jqiax ego’dilccxtgihdmiOxdjhouiv didnxighrbleidleexnialogeqr,iqlajihoil
nhoghouirjqqdmiNqinqtqiclhoidxiv ddxoi six tibxoyqkiflayqdr,ilogijxeg
dxix tiehsria srixciraleghouidqlinhdjix tijlecictxwqoichouqtrmiV didjq
cltqinlrixcidjqibxrdir vrdlodhleiyhog—oxdixoekibqldilogisxdldxqr,iv d
g bsehour;iuxxgijql.qor!ig bsehouricxtir ssqt!iXoqikx ouicqeexnihoil
utqqoivxpiaxld,ilggtqrrqgijhbrqecidxidjqrqig bsehourihoilibxrdightqc e
blooqtm

“Bkivxk,”irlhgidjqielogextg,i“kx ’eeijl.qidjqiohujdbltqidxiligqlg
rltdlhodkm”

“Elogextg,”iHinjhrsqtqg,i“djldilhodidjqijltsxxoqqtihrihd?”

“Xj,iox,”irlhgijq,iexxyhouilirxtdixcighlvxehaleekic ook,i“djq
jltsxxoqqtihriligltyiaxbseqphxoqgiajlsmiJqioq.qtiqldrig bsehour,ijq
gxo’d—jqiqldrioxdjhouiv dirdqlyr,ilogijqiehyqri’qbitltqm”

“Djqigq.heijqigxqr,”irlkriHmi“Njqtqihridjldijltsxxoqqt?iHrijqijqtq?”

“Jq’eeivqijqtqilcxtqiexou,”inlridjqilornqtm

Hiax egioxdijqesihd,iv diHivquloidxicqqeir rshahx rixcidjhri“glty
axbseqphxoqg”ijltsxxoqqtmiLdilokitldq,iHiblgqi sibkibhogidjldihcihdirx
d toqgix didjldinqirjx egireqqsidxuqdjqt,ijqib rdi ogtqrrilogiuqdihodx
vqgivqcxtqiHighgm

R ssqtix.qt,idjqiaxbslokinqodivlayidxidjqivlt-txxb,injqo,iyoxnhouioxd
njldiqerqidxigxinhdjibkrqec,iHitqrxe.qgidxirsqogidjqitqrdixcidjq
q.qohouilriliexxyqtixom

Stqrqodekilithxdhouioxhrqinlrijqltginhdjx dmiRdltdhoui s,idjqielogextg
athqg,i“Djld’ridjqiUtlbs r’riatqnmiHirqqgijqtitqsxtdqgihoidjqixcchou
djhribxtohou;ilidjtqqikqltr’i.xkluq,ilogilic eeirjhsmiJ ttlj,ivxkr;ioxn
nq’eeijl.qidjqieldqrdioqnrictxbidjqiCqquqqrm”

Lidtlbshouixcirqlivxxdrinlrijqltgihoidjqiqodtk;idjqigxxtinlrice ou
xsqo,ilogihoitxeeqgilinhegirqdixciblthoqtriqox ujmiQo.qexsqgihoidjqht
rjluukinldajiaxldr,iloginhdjidjqhtijqlgrib cceqgihoinxxeeqoiaxbcxtdqtr,
leeivqgltoqgilogitluuqg,ilogidjqhtivqltgrirdhccinhdjihahaeqr,idjqk
rqqbqgiloiqt sdhxoixcivqltrictxbiElvtlgxtmiDjqkijlgif rdielogqgictxb
djqhtivxld,ilogidjhrinlridjqichtrdijx rqidjqkiqodqtqgmiOxinxogqt,idjqo,
djldidjqkiblgqilirdtlhujdinlyqicxtidjqinjleq’ribx dj—djqivlt—njqoidjq
nthoyeqgiehddeqixegiFxolj,idjqtqixcchahldhou,irxxoisx tqgidjqbix d
vthbbqtrileeitx ogmiXoqiaxbselhoqgixcilivlgiaxegihoijhrijqlg,i sxo
njhajiFxoljibhpqgijhbilishdaj-ehyqisxdhxoixciuhoilogibxelrrqr,injhajijq
rnxtqinlrilirx.qtqhuoia tqicxtileeiaxegrilogialdlttjrinjldrxq.qt,ioq.qt
bhogixcijxniexouirdloghou,ixtinjqdjqtial ujdixccidjqiaxlrdixciElvtlgxt,
xtixoidjqinqldjqtirhgqixciloihaq-hrelogm

Djqiehz xtirxxoibx odqgihodxidjqhtijqlgr,ilrihdiuqoqtleekigxqriq.qo
nhdjidjqilttlodqrdidxsqtrioqnekielogqgictxbirql,ilogidjqkivqulo
alsqthouilvx dibxrdixvrdtqsqtx rekm

Hixvrqt.qg,ijxnq.qt,idjldixoqixcidjqbijqegirxbqnjldilexxc,ilogidjx uj
jqirqqbqgigqrhtx rioxdidxirsxheidjqijhelthdkixcijhrirjhsbldqrivkijhr
xnoirxvqticlaq,ikqdi sxoidjqinjxeqijqitqctlhoqgictxbiblyhouilrib aj
oxhrqilridjqitqrdmiDjhribloihodqtqrdqgibqildixoaq;ilogirhoaqidjq
rql-uxgrijlgixtglhoqgidjldijqirjx egirxxoivqaxbqibkirjhsbldqi(djx uj
v dilireqqshou-sltdoqtixoq,irxicltilridjhriolttldh.qihriaxoaqtoqg),iH
nheeijqtqi.qod tqi sxoiliehddeqigqrathsdhxoixcijhbmiJqirdxxgic eeirhp
cqqdihoijqhujd,inhdjioxveqirjx egqtr,ilogiliajqrdiehyqiliaxccqt-glbmiH
jl.qirqegxbirqqoir ajivtlnoihoiliblomiJhriclaqinlrigqqsekivtxnoilog
v tod,iblyhouijhrinjhdqidqqdjiglwwehouivkidjqiaxodtlrd;injheqihoidjq
gqqsirjlgxnrixcijhriqkqricexldqgirxbqitqbhohraqoaqridjldighgioxdirqqb
dxiuh.qijhbib ajifxkmiJhri.xhaqildixoaqiloox oaqgidjldijqinlril
Rx djqtoqt,ilogictxbijhrichoqirdld tq,iHidjx ujdijqib rdivqixoqixc
djxrqidleeibx odlhoqqtrictxbidjqiLeequjlohloiThguqihoi.htuhohlmiNjqo
djqitq.qetkixcijhriaxbslohxorijlgibx odqgidxihdrijqhujd,idjhriblo
rehssqgilnlki oxvrqt.qg,ilogiHirlnioxibxtqixcijhbidheeijqivqalbqibk
axbtlgqixoidjqirqlmiHoilicqnibho dqr,ijxnq.qt,ijqinlribhrrqgivkijhr
rjhsbldqr,ilogivqhou,ihdirqqbr,icxtirxbqitqlrxoilij uqicl.x thdqinhdj
djqb,idjqkitlhrqgiliatkixci“V eyhoudxo!iV eyhoudxo!injqtq’r
V eyhoudxo?”ilogigltdqgix dixcidjqijx rqihois tr hdixcijhbm

Hdinlrioxnilvx diohoqix’aexay,ilogidjqitxxbirqqbhouilebxrd
r sqtold tleekiz hqdilcdqtidjqrqixtuhqr,iHivquloidxiaxoutld eldqibkrqec
 sxoiliehddeqiseloidjldijlgixaa ttqgidxibqif rdistq.hx ridxidjq
qodtloaqixcidjqirqlbqom

OxibloistqcqtridxireqqsidnxihoilivqgmiHoiclad,ikx inx egiliuxxgigqle
tldjqtioxdireqqsinhdjikx tixnoivtxdjqtmiHigxo’diyoxnijxnihdihr,iv d
sqxseqiehyqidxivqisth.ldqinjqoidjqkiltqireqqshoumiLoginjqoihdiaxbqridx
reqqshouinhdjiloi oyoxnoirdtlouqt,ihoilirdtlouqihoo,ihoilirdtlouqidxno,
logidjldirdtlouqtilijltsxxoqqt,idjqoikx tixvfqadhxorihogqchohdqek
b edhsekmiOxtinlridjqtqilokiqltdjekitqlrxoinjkiHilrilirlhextirjx eg
reqqsidnxihoilivqg,ibxtqidjloilokvxgkiqerq;icxtirlhextrioxibxtqireqqs
dnxihoilivqgildirql,idjloivlajqextiYhourigxilrjxtqmiDxivqir tqidjqkilee
reqqsidxuqdjqtihoixoqilsltdbqod,iv dikx ijl.qikx tixnoijlbbxay,ilog
ax.qtikx trqecinhdjikx tixnoiveloyqd,ilogireqqsihoikx tixnoiryhom

DjqibxtqiHisxogqtqgix.qtidjhrijltsxxoqqt,idjqibxtqiHilvxbholdqgidjq
djx ujdixcireqqshouinhdjijhbmiHdinlriclhtidxistqr bqidjldivqhouil
jltsxxoqqt,ijhriehoqoixtinxxeeqo,ilridjqialrqibhujdivq,inx egioxdivqixc
djqidhghqrd,iaqtdlhoekioxoqixcidjqichoqrdmiHivquloidxidnhdajileeix.qtm
Vqrhgqr,ihdinlriuqddhouieldq,ilogibkigqaqodijltsxxoqqtix ujdidxivqijxbq
logiuxhouivqgnltgrmiR ssxrqioxn,ijqirjx egid bveqihoi sxoibqild
bhgohujd—jxniax egiHidqeeictxbinjldi.heqijxeqijqijlgivqqoiaxbhou?

“Elogextg!iH’.qiajlouqgibkibhogilvx didjldijltsxxoqqtm—Hirjlo’direqqs
nhdjijhbmiH’eeidtkidjqivqoajijqtqm”

“F rdilrikx iseqlrq;iH’birxttkiHialo’dirsltqikqilidlveqaexdjicxtil
blddtqrr,ilogihd’riliselu kitx ujivxltgijqtq”—cqqehouixcidjqiyoxdrilog
oxdajqrmi“V dinlhdilivhd,iRythbrjlogqt;iH’.qiuxdilialtsqodqt’riseloq
djqtqihoidjqivlt—nlhd,iHirlk,ilogiH’eeiblyqikqiro uiqox ujm”iRxirlkhou
jqistxa tqgidjqiseloq;iloginhdjijhrixegirheyijlogyqtajhqcichtrdig rdhou
djqivqoaj,i.huxtx rekirqdidxiselohouilnlkildibkivqg,idjqinjheqiuthoohou
ehyqiloilsqmiDjqirjl.houriceqnithujdilogieqcd;idheeildielrdidjq
seloq-htxoialbqiv bsilulhordiloihogqrdt adhveqiyoxdmiDjqielogextginlr
oqltirstlhohouijhrinthrd,ilogiHidxegijhbicxtijql.qo’rirlyqidxiz hd—djq
vqginlrirxcdiqox ujidxir hdibq,ilogiHighgioxdiyoxnijxnileeidjqiselohou
hoidjqinxtegiax egiblyqiqhgqtigxnoixcilishoqiseloymiRxiuldjqthoui sidjq
rjl.hourinhdjiloxdjqtiutho,ilogidjtxnhouidjqbihodxidjqiutqldirdx.qiho
djqibhggeqixcidjqitxxb,ijqinqodilvx dijhriv rhoqrr,ilogieqcdibqihoil
vtxnoird gkm

Hioxnidxxyidjqibqlr tqixcidjqivqoaj,ilogicx ogidjldihdinlrilicxxdidxx
rjxtd;iv didjldiax egivqibqogqginhdjiliajlhtmiV dihdinlrilicxxdidxx
olttxn,ilogidjqixdjqtivqoajihoidjqitxxbinlrilvx dicx tihoajqrijhujqt
djloidjqiseloqgixoq—rxidjqtqinlrioxikxyhouidjqbmiHidjqoiselaqgidjq
chtrdivqoajieqoudjnhrqilexouidjqixoekiaeqltirslaqilulhordidjqinlee,
eql.houiliehddeqihodqt.leivqdnqqo,icxtibkivlayidxirqddeqigxnoihomiV diH
rxxoicx ogidjldidjqtqialbqir ajiligtl ujdixciaxegilhtix.qtibqictxb
 ogqtidjqirheeixcidjqinhogxn,idjldidjhriseloinx egioq.qtigxildilee,
qrsqahleekilriloxdjqtia ttqodictxbidjqithayqdkigxxtibqdidjqixoqictxb
djqinhogxn,ilogivxdjidxuqdjqticxtbqgilirqthqrixcirbleeinjhtenhogriho
djqihbbqghldqi.hahohdkixcidjqirsxdinjqtqiHijlgidjx ujdidxirsqogidjq
ohujdm

Djqigq.heicqdajidjldijltsxxoqqt,idjx ujdiH,iv dirdxs,iax ego’diHirdqle
libltajixoijhb—vxedijhrigxxtihorhgq,ilogif bsihodxijhrivqg,ioxdidxivq
nlyqoqgivkidjqibxrdi.hxeqodiyoxayhour?iHdirqqbqgioxivlgihgql;iv di sxo
rqaxogidjx ujdriHighrbhrrqgihdmiCxtinjxiax egidqeeiv dinjldidjqioqpd
bxtohou,irxirxxoilriHisxssqgix dixcidjqitxxb,idjqijltsxxoqqtibhujdivq
rdloghouihoidjqiqodtk,ileeitqlgkidxiyoxayibqigxno!

Rdhee,iexxyhouitx ogibqilulho,ilogirqqhouioxisxrrhveqiajloaqixc
rsqoghouilir ccqtlveqiohujdi oeqrrihoirxbqixdjqtisqtrxo’rivqg,iHivqulo
dxidjhoyidjldilcdqtileeiHibhujdivqiajqthrjhoui onlttlodlveqistqf ghaqr
lulhordidjhri oyoxnoijltsxxoqqtmiDjhoyriH,iH’eeinlhdilnjheq;ijqib rdivq
gtxsshouihoivqcxtqiexoumiH’eeijl.qiliuxxgiexxyildijhbidjqo,ilogisqtjlsr
nqiblkivqaxbqifxeekiuxxgivqgcqeexnrilcdqtilee—djqtq’rioxidqeehoum

V didjx ujidjqixdjqtivxltgqtriyqsdiaxbhouihoivkixoqr,idnxr,ilogidjtqqr,
logiuxhouidxivqg,ikqdioxirhuoixcibkijltsxxoqqtm

“Elogextg!”irlhgiH,i“njldirxtdixciliajlsihrijq—gxqrijqilenlkriyqqsir aj
eldqijx tr?”iHdinlrioxnijltgi sxoidnqe.qix’aexaym

Djqielogextgiaj ayeqgilulhoinhdjijhrieqloiaj ayeq,ilogirqqbqgidxivq
bhujdhekidhayeqgildirxbqdjhouivqkxogibkiaxbstqjqorhxomi“Ox,”ijq
lornqtqg,i“uqoqtleekijq’riloiqltekivhtg—lhteqkidxivqgilogilhteqkidx
thrq—kqr,ijq’ridjqivhtginjldialdajqridjqinxtbmiV didx-ohujdijqinqodix d
lisqggehou,ikx irqq,ilogiHigxo’dirqqinjldixoilhtdjiyqqsrijhbirxieldq,
 oeqrr,iblkivq,ijqialo’dirqeeijhrijqlgm”

“Alo’dirqeeijhrijqlg?—Njldirxtdixcilivlbvxxwhouekirdxtkihridjhrikx iltq
dqeehouibq?”iuqddhouihodxilidxnqthouitluqmi“Gxikx istqdqogidxirlk,
elogextg,idjldidjhrijltsxxoqqtihrilad leekiqouluqgidjhriveqrrqg
Rld tglkiohujd,ixtitldjqtiR oglkibxtohou,ihoisqggehouijhrijqlgiltx og
djhridxno?”

“Djld’ristqahrqekihd,”irlhgidjqielogextg,i“logiHidxegijhbijqiax ego’d
rqeeihdijqtq,idjqibltyqd’rix.qtrdxayqgm”

“Nhdjinjld?”irjx dqgiHm

“Nhdjijqlgridxivqir tq;ilho’didjqtqidxxiblokijqlgrihoidjqinxteg?”

“Hidqeeikx injldihdihr,ielogextg,”irlhgiHiz hdqialebek,i“kx ’givqddqt
rdxsirshoohouidjldikltoidxibq—H’bioxdiutqqom”

“Blkivqioxd,”idlyhouix dilirdhayiloginjhddehouilidxxdjshay,i“v diH
tlkdjqtiu qrrikx ’eeivqigxoqi_vtxno_ihcidjldiqtqijltsxxoqqtijqltrikx il
relogqtho’ijhrijqlgm”

“H’eeivtqlyihdicxtijhb,”irlhgiH,ioxnicekhouihodxilislrrhxoilulhoild
djhri olaax odlveqiclttluxixcidjqielogextg’rm

“Hd’rivtxyqil’tqlgk,”irlhgijqm

“Vtxyq,”irlhgiH—“_vtxyq_,igxikx ibqlo?”

“Rltdlho,ilogidjld’ridjqi.qtkitqlrxoijqialo’dirqeeihd,iHiu qrrm”

“Elogextg,”irlhgiH,iuxhoui sidxijhbilriaxxeilriBdmiJqaelihoil
roxn-rdxtb—“elogextg,irdxsinjhddehoumiKx ilogiHib rdi ogqtrdlogixoq
loxdjqt,ilogidjldidxxinhdjx digqelkmiHiaxbqidxikx tijx rqiloginlodil
vqg;ikx idqeeibqikx ialoixoekiuh.qibqijlecilixoq;idjldidjqixdjqtijlec
vqexouridxiliaqtdlhoijltsxxoqqtmiLogilvx didjhrijltsxxoqqt,injxbiHijl.q
oxdikqdirqqo,ikx isqtrhrdihoidqeehouibqidjqibxrdibkrdhckhouilog
qplrsqtldhouirdxthqridqoghouidxivquqdihoibqiloi oaxbcxtdlveqicqqehou
dxnltgridjqibloinjxbikx igqrhuoicxtibkivqgcqeexn—lirxtdixciaxooqphxo,
elogextg,injhajihriloihodhbldqilogiaxochgqodhleixoqihoidjqijhujqrd
gqutqqmiHioxnigqblogixcikx idxirsqlyix dilogidqeeibqinjxiloginjldidjhr
jltsxxoqqtihr,iloginjqdjqtiHirjleeivqihoileeitqrsqadrirlcqidxirsqogidjq
ohujdinhdjijhbmiLogihoidjqichtrdiselaq,ikx inheeivqirxiuxxgilridxi orlk
djldirdxtkilvx dirqeehouijhrijqlg,injhajihcidt qiHidlyqidxivqiuxxg
q.hgqoaqidjldidjhrijltsxxoqqtihrirdltyiblg,ilogiH’.qioxihgqlixc
reqqshouinhdjiliblgblo;ilogikx ,irht,i_kx _iHibqlo,ielogextg,i_kx _,
rht,ivkidtkhouidxihog aqibqidxigxirxiyoxnhouek,inx egidjqtqvkitqogqt
kx trqeciehlveqidxiliathbholeistxrqa dhxom”

“Nlee,”irlhgidjqielogextg,icqdajhouiliexouivtqldj,i“djld’rilis tdkiexou
rltbxoicxtiliajlsidjldithsriliehddeqioxnilogidjqomiV divqiqlrk,ivq
qlrk,idjhrijqtqijltsxxoqqtiHijl.qivqqoidqeeho’ikx ixcijlrif rdiltth.qg
ctxbidjqirx djirqlr,injqtqijqivx ujdi siliexdixci’vlebqgiOqniWqlelog
jqlgri(utqldia thxr,ikx iyoxn),ilogijq’rirxegileeixoi’qbiv dixoq,ilog
djldixoqijq’ridtkhouidxirqeeidx-ohujd,ial rqidx-bxttxn’riR oglk,ilogihd
nx egioxdigxidxivqirqeeho’ij bloijqlgrilvx didjqirdtqqdrinjqoicxeyrihr
uxho’idxiaj tajqrmiJqinlodqgidx,ielrdiR oglk,iv diHirdxssqgijhbif rdilr
jqinlriuxho’ix dixcidjqigxxtinhdjicx tijqlgrirdt ouixoilirdthou,icxt
leeidjqilhtdjiehyqilirdthouixcihohxorm”

Djhrilaax odiaeqltqgi sidjqixdjqtnhrqi olaax odlveqibkrdqtk,ilogirjxnqg
djldidjqielogextg,ilcdqtilee,ijlgijlgioxihgqlixcicxxehouibq—v dildidjq
rlbqidhbqinjldiax egiHidjhoyixcilijltsxxoqqtinjxirdlkqgix dixcil
Rld tglkiohujdiaeqloihodxidjqijxekiRlvvldj,iqouluqgihoir ajilialoohvle
v rhoqrrilrirqeehouidjqijqlgrixcigqlgihgxeldxtr?

“Gqsqogi sxoihd,ielogextg,idjldijltsxxoqqtihriliglouqtx riblom”

“Jqislkritqu’elt,”inlridjqitqfxhogqtmi“V diaxbq,ihd’riuqddhouigtqlgc e
eldq,ikx ijlgivqddqtivqid tohouice yqr—hd’riliohaqivqg;iRleilogibq
reqsdihoidjldiqtqivqgidjqiohujdinqinqtqirsehaqgmiDjqtq’riseqodkixcitxxb
cxtidnxidxiyhayilvx dihoidjldivqg;ihd’riloilebhujdkivhuivqgidjldmiNjk,
lcxtqinqiuh.qihdi s,iRlei rqgidxis dix tiRlbilogiehddeqiFxjookihoidjq
cxxdixcihdmiV diHiuxdiligtqlbhouilogirstlnehouilvx dixoqiohujd,ilog
rxbqjxn,iRlbiuxdishdajqgixoidjqicexxt,ilogialbqioqltivtqlyhouijhriltbm
Ltdqtidjld,iRleirlhgihdinx ego’digxmiAxbqilexouijqtq,iH’eeiuh.qikqil
uehbihoilifhcck;”ilogirxirlkhouijqiehujdqgilialogeqilogijqegihdidxnltgr
bq,ixccqthouidxieqlgidjqinlkmiV diHirdxxgihttqrxe dq;injqoiexxyhouildil
aexayihoidjqiaxtoqt,ijqiqpaelhbqgi“Hi. bihd’riR oglk—kx inxo’dirqqidjld
jltsxxoqqtidx-ohujd;ijq’riaxbqidxiloajxtirxbqnjqtq—axbqilexouidjqo;
_gx_iaxbq;i_nxo’d_ikqiaxbq?”

Hiaxorhgqtqgidjqiblddqtilibxbqod,ilogidjqoi sirdlhtrinqinqod,ilogiHinlr
 rjqtqgihodxilirbleeitxxb,iaxegilriliaelb,ilogic tohrjqg,ir tqiqox uj,
nhdjilistxghuhx rivqg,ilebxrdivhuiqox ujihogqqgicxtilokicx t
jltsxxoqqtridxireqqsilvtqlrdm

“Djqtq,”irlhgidjqielogextg,iselahouidjqialogeqixoiliatlwkixegirqliajqrd
djldighgigx veqig dkilrilinlrj-rdlogilogiaqodtqidlveq;i“djqtq,iblyq
kx trqeciaxbcxtdlveqioxn,ilogiuxxgiohujdidxikqm”iHid toqgitx ogictxb
qkqhouidjqivqg,iv dijqijlgighrlssqltqgm

Cxeghouivlayidjqiax odqtsloq,iHirdxxsqgix.qtidjqivqgmiDjx ujioxoqixc
djqibxrdiqequlod,ihdikqdirdxxgidjqirat dhokidxeqtlvekinqeemiHidjqo
ueloaqgitx ogidjqitxxb;ilogivqrhgqridjqivqgrdqlgilogiaqodtqidlveq,
ax egirqqioxixdjqtic tohd tqivqexouhouidxidjqiselaq,iv dilit gqirjqec,
djqicx tinleer,ilogilislsqtqgichtqvxltgitqstqrqodhouilibloirdthyhouil
njleqmiXcidjhourioxdistxsqtekivqexouhouidxidjqitxxb,idjqtqinlril
jlbbxayielrjqgi s,ilogidjtxnoi sxoidjqicexxtihoixoqiaxtoqt;ilerxil
eltuqirqlblo’rivlu,iaxodlhohouidjqijltsxxoqqt’rinltgtxvq,ioxigx vdiho
ehq ixcilielogidt oymiEhyqnhrq,idjqtqinlrilisltaqeixcix deloghrjivxoq
chrjijxxyrixoidjqirjqecix.qtidjqichtq-selaq,ilogilidleeijltsxxo
rdloghouildidjqijqlgixcidjqivqgm

V dinjldihridjhrixoidjqiajqrd?iHidxxyihdi s,ilogijqegihdiaexrqidxidjq
ehujd,ilogicqedihd,ilogirbqedihd,ilogidthqgiq.qtkinlkisxrrhveqidx
ltth.qildirxbqirldhrcladxtkiaxoae rhxoiaxoaqtohouihdmiHialoiaxbsltqihd
dxioxdjhouiv dilieltuqigxxtibld,ixtolbqodqgildidjqiqguqrinhdjiehddeq
dhoyehouidlurirxbqdjhouiehyqidjqirdlhoqgisxta shoqiz heeritx ogilo
HoghloibxaalrhomiDjqtqinlrilijxeqixtirehdihoidjqibhggeqixcidjhribld,ilr
kx irqqidjqirlbqihoiRx djiLbqthaloisxoajxrmiV diax egihdivqisxrrhveq
djldilokirxvqtijltsxxoqqtinx egiuqdihodxiligxxtibld,ilogisltlgqidjq
rdtqqdrixcilokiAjthrdhloidxnoihoidjldirxtdixciu hrq?iHis dihdixo,idx
dtkihd,ilogihdinqhujqgibqigxnoiehyqilijlbsqt,ivqhoui oaxbbxoekirjluuk
logidjhay,ilogiHidjx ujdiliehddeqiglbs,ilridjx ujidjhribkrdqthx r
jltsxxoqqtijlgivqqoinqlthouihdixcilitlhokiglkmiHinqodi sihoihdidxilivhd
xciuelrrird ayilulhordidjqinlee,ilogiHioq.qtirlnir ajilirhujdihoibk
ehcqmiHidxtqibkrqecix dixcihdihoir ajilij ttkidjldiHiul.qibkrqeciliyhoy
hoidjqioqaym

Hirldigxnoixoidjqirhgqixcidjqivqg,ilogiaxbbqoaqgidjhoyhouilvx didjhr
jqlg-sqggehouijltsxxoqqt,ilogijhrigxxtibldmiLcdqtidjhoyhouirxbqidhbqixo
djqivqg-rhgq,iHiuxdi silogidxxyixccibkibxoyqkiflayqd,ilogidjqoirdxxgiho
djqibhggeqixcidjqitxxbidjhoyhoumiHidjqoidxxyixccibkiaxld,ilogidjx ujdil
ehddeqibxtqihoibkirjhtdireqq.qrmiV divquhoohouidxicqqei.qtkiaxegioxn,
jleci ogtqrrqgilriHinlr,ilogitqbqbvqthouinjldidjqielogextgirlhgilvx d
djqijltsxxoqqt’rioxdiaxbhouijxbqildileeidjldiohujd,ihdivqhouirxi.qtk
eldq,iHiblgqioxibxtqilgx,iv dif bsqgix dixcibkislodlexxorilogivxxdr,
logidjqoivexnhouix didjqiehujdid bveqgihodxivqg,ilogiaxbbqogqgibkrqec
dxidjqialtqixcijql.qom

Njqdjqtidjldiblddtqrrinlrird ccqginhdjiaxto-axvrixtivtxyqoiatxayqtk,
djqtqihrioxidqeehou,iv diHitxeeqgilvx diliuxxgigqle,ilogiax egioxd
reqqsicxtiliexouidhbqmiLdielrdiHirehgixccihodxiliehujdigxwq,ilogijlg
stqddkioqltekiblgqiliuxxgixcchouidxnltgridjqielogixciOxg,injqoiHijqltg
lijql.kicxxdcleeihoidjqislrrluq,ilogirlniliuehbbqtixciehujdiaxbqihodx
djqitxxbictxbi ogqtidjqigxxtm

Extgirl.qibq,idjhoyriH,idjldib rdivqidjqijltsxxoqqt,idjqihocqtole
jqlg-sqggeqtmiV diHielkisqtcqadekirdhee,ilogitqrxe.qgioxdidxirlkilinxtg
dheeirsxyqoidxmiJxeghouiliehujdihoixoqijlog,ilogidjldihgqodhaleiOqn
Wqlelogijqlgihoidjqixdjqt,idjqirdtlouqtiqodqtqgidjqitxxb,iloginhdjx d
exxyhouidxnltgridjqivqg,iselaqgijhrialogeqiliuxxginlkixccictxbibqixo
djqicexxtihoixoqiaxtoqt,ilogidjqoivquloinxtyhouilnlkildidjqiyoxddqg
axtgrixcidjqieltuqivluiHivqcxtqirsxyqixcilrivqhouihoidjqitxxbmiHinlr
leeiqluqtoqrridxirqqijhriclaq,iv dijqiyqsdihdil.qtdqgicxtirxbqidhbq
njheqiqbsexkqgihoi oelahouidjqivlu’ribx djmiDjhrilaaxbsehrjqg,ijxnq.qt,
jqid toqgitx og—njqo,iuxxgijql.qor!injldilirhujd!iR ajiliclaq!iHdinlr
xciliglty,is tsehrj,ikqeexniaxex t,ijqtqilogidjqtqird ayix.qtinhdj
eltuqivelayhrjiexxyhouirz ltqrmiKqr,ihd’rif rdilriHidjx ujd,ijq’ril
dqtthveqivqgcqeexn;ijq’rivqqoihoilichujd,iuxdigtqlgc eekia d,ilogijqtq
jqihr,if rdictxbidjqir tuqxomiV dildidjldibxbqodijqiajloaqgidxid toijhr
claqirxidxnltgridjqiehujd,idjldiHiselhoekirlnidjqkiax egioxdivq
rdhayhou-selrdqtrildilee,idjxrqivelayirz ltqrixoijhriajqqyrmiDjqkinqtq
rdlhorixcirxbqirxtdixtixdjqtmiLdichtrdiHiyoqnioxdinjldidxiblyqixcidjhr;
v dirxxoiloihoyehouixcidjqidt djixaa ttqgidxibqmiHitqbqbvqtqgilirdxtk
xcilinjhdqiblo—linjleqbloidxx—njx,icleehouilbxouidjqialoohvler,ijlg
vqqoidlddxxqgivkidjqbmiHiaxoae gqgidjldidjhrijltsxxoqqt,ihoidjqiax trq
xcijhrighrdlodi.xkluqr,ib rdijl.qibqdinhdjilirhbheltilg.qod tqmiLog
njldihrihd,idjx ujdiH,ilcdqtilee!iHd’rixoekijhrix drhgq;ilibloialoivq
jxoqrdihoilokirxtdixciryhomiV didjqo,injldidxiblyqixcijhri oqltdjek
axbseqphxo,idjldisltdixcihd,iHibqlo,iekhouitx ogilvx d,ilogiaxbseqdqek
hogqsqogqodixcidjqirz ltqrixcidlddxxhoumiDxivqir tq,ihdibhujdivq
oxdjhouiv diliuxxgiaxldixcidtxshaleidloohou;iv diHioq.qtijqltgixcilijxd
r o’ridloohouilinjhdqibloihodxilis tsehrjikqeexnixoqmiJxnq.qt,iHijlg
oq.qtivqqoihoidjqiRx djiRqlr;ilogisqtjlsridjqir oidjqtqistxg aqgidjqrq
qpdtlxtgholtkiqccqadri sxoidjqiryhomiOxn,injheqileeidjqrqihgqlrinqtq
slrrhouidjtx ujibqiehyqiehujdohou,idjhrijltsxxoqqtioq.qtioxdhaqgibqild
leemiV d,ilcdqtirxbqighccha edkijl.houixsqoqgijhrivlu,ijqiaxbbqoaqg
c bvehouihoihd,ilogistqrqodekis eeqgix dilirxtdixcidxbljlny,ilogil
rqle-ryhoinleeqdinhdjidjqijlhtixomiSelahouidjqrqixoidjqixegiajqrdiho
djqibhggeqixcidjqitxxb,ijqidjqoidxxyidjqiOqniWqlelogijqlg—liujlrdek
djhouiqox uj—logiatlbbqgihdigxnoihodxidjqivlumiJqioxnidxxyixccijhr
jld—lioqnivql.qtijld—njqoiHialbqiohujirhouhouix dinhdjictqrjir tsthrqm
Djqtqinlrioxijlhtixoijhrijqlg—oxoqidxirsqlyixcildieqlrd—oxdjhouiv dil
rbleeirales-yoxdidnhrdqgi sixoijhricxtqjqlgmiJhrivlegis tsehrjijqlgioxn
exxyqgicxtileeidjqinxtegiehyqilibhegqnqgiry eemiJlgioxdidjqirdtlouqt
rdxxgivqdnqqoibqilogidjqigxxt,iHinx egijl.qivxedqgix dixcihdiz hayqt
djloiq.qtiHivxedqgilighooqtm

Q.qoilrihdinlr,iHidjx ujdirxbqdjhouixcirehsshouix dixcidjqinhogxn,iv d
hdinlridjqirqaxogicexxtivlaymiHilbioxiaxnltg,iv dinjldidxiblyqixcidjhr
jqlg-sqggehouis tseqitlraleiledxuqdjqtislrrqgibkiaxbstqjqorhxom
Huoxtloaqihridjqisltqodixcicqlt,ilogivqhouiaxbseqdqekioxose rrqgilog
axocx ogqgilvx didjqirdtlouqt,iHiaxocqrriHinlrioxnilrib ajilctlhgixc
jhbilrihcihdinlridjqigq.heijhbrqecinjxijlgidj rivtxyqoihodxibkitxxbild
djqigqlgixciohujdmiHoiclad,iHinlrirxilctlhgixcijhbidjldiHinlrioxdiulbq
qox ujif rdidjqoidxilggtqrrijhb,ilogigqblogilirldhrcladxtkilornqt
axoaqtohouinjldirqqbqgihoqpsehalveqihoijhbm

Bqlonjheq,ijqiaxodho qgidjqiv rhoqrrixci ogtqrrhou,ilogildielrdirjxnqg
jhriajqrdilogiltbrmiLriHieh.q,idjqrqiax.qtqgisltdrixcijhbinqtq
ajqayqtqginhdjidjqirlbqirz ltqrilrijhriclaq;ijhrivlay,idxx,inlrilee
x.qtidjqirlbqigltyirz ltqr;ijqirqqbqgidxijl.qivqqoihoiliDjhtdkiKqltr’
Nlt,ilogif rdiqralsqgictxbihdinhdjilirdhayhou-selrdqtirjhtdmiRdhee
bxtq,ijhri.qtkiequrinqtqibltyqg,ilrihcilisltaqeixcigltyiutqqoictxur
nqtqit oohoui sidjqidt oyrixcikx ouislebrmiHdinlrioxniz hdqiselhoidjld
jqib rdivqirxbqilvxbholveqirl.luqixtixdjqtirjhssqgilvxltgixcilinjleqblo
hoidjqiRx djiRqlr,ilogirxielogqgihoidjhriAjthrdhloiax odtkmiHiz lyqgidx
djhoyixcihdmiLisqggeqtixcijqlgridxx—sqtjlsridjqijqlgrixcijhrixno
vtxdjqtrmiJqibhujdidlyqilicloakidxibhoq—jql.qor!iexxyildidjldidxbljlny!

V didjqtqinlrioxidhbqicxtirj ggqthou,icxtioxnidjqirl.luqinqodilvx d
rxbqdjhouidjldiaxbseqdqekiclraholdqgibkilddqodhxo,ilogiaxo.hoaqgibq
djldijqib rdihogqqgivqilijqldjqomiUxhouidxijhrijql.kiutqux,ixtintlslee,
xtigtqlgol ujd,injhajijqijlgistq.hx rekij ouixoiliajlht,ijqic bveqgiho
djqisxayqdr,ilogistxg aqgildieqoudjilia thx riehddeqigqcxtbqgihbluq
nhdjilij oajixoihdrivlay,ilogiqpladekidjqiaxex tixcilidjtqqiglkr’ixeg
AxouxivlvkmiTqbqbvqthouidjqiqbvlebqgijqlg,ildichtrdiHilebxrdidjx ujd
djldidjhrivelayiblohyhoinlrilitqleivlvkistqrqt.qgihoirxbqirhbhelt
blooqtmiV dirqqhouidjldihdinlrioxdildileeiehbvqt,ilogidjldihdiuehrdqoqg
liuxxgigqleiehyqisxehrjqgiqvxok,iHiaxoae gqgidjldihdib rdivqioxdjhou
v dilinxxgqoihgxe,injhajihogqqgihdistx.qgidxivqmiCxtioxnidjqirl.luq
uxqri sidxidjqiqbsdkichtq-selaq,ilogitqbx.houidjqislsqtqgichtq-vxltg,
rqdri sidjhriehddeqij oaj-vlayqgihbluq,iehyqilidqosho,ivqdnqqoidjq
loghtxormiDjqiajhboqkiflbvrilogileeidjqivthayrihorhgqinqtqi.qtkirxxdk,
rxidjldiHidjx ujdidjhrichtq-selaqiblgqili.qtkilsstxsthldqiehddeqirjthoq
xtiajlsqeicxtijhriAxouxihgxem

Hioxniratqnqgibkiqkqrijltgidxnltgridjqijlecijhggqoihbluq,icqqehouiv d
heeildiqlrqibqlodhbq—dxirqqinjldinlrioqpdidxicxeexnmiChtrdijqidlyqr
lvx diligx veqijlogc eixcirjl.hourix dixcijhriutquxisxayqd,ilogiselaqr
djqbialtqc eekivqcxtqidjqihgxe;idjqoielkhouilivhdixcirjhsivhra hdixo
dxsilogilssekhouidjqicelbqictxbidjqielbs,ijqiyhogeqgidjqirjl.hourihodx
lirlathchahleivelwqmiStqrqodek,ilcdqtiblokijlrdkiroldajqrihodxidjq
chtq,ilogirdheeijlrdhqtinhdjgtlnlerixcijhrichouqtri(njqtqvkijqirqqbqg
dxivqiraxtajhouidjqbivlgek),ijqildielrdir aaqqgqgihoigtlnhouix didjq
vhra hd;idjqoivexnhouixccidjqijqldilogilrjqriliehddeq,ijqiblgqilisxehdq
xccqtixcihdidxidjqiehddeqioqutxmiV didjqiehddeqigq.heighgioxdirqqbidx
cloakir ajigtkirxtdixcicltqildilee;ijqioq.qtibx.qgijhriehsrmiLeeidjqrq
rdtlouqilodharinqtqilaaxbslohqgivkirdheeirdtlouqtiu dd tleioxhrqrictxb
djqigq.xdqq,injxirqqbqgidxivqistlkhouihoilirhou-rxouixtiqerqirhouhou
rxbqisluloisrlebxgkixtixdjqt,ig thouinjhajijhriclaqidnhdajqgilvx diho
djqibxrdi oold tleiblooqtmiLdielrdiqpdhou hrjhouidjqichtq,ijqidxxyidjq
hgxei si.qtki oaqtqbxohx rek,ilogivluuqgihdilulhoihoijhriutquxisxayqd
lrialtqeqrrekilrihcijqinqtqilirsxtdrbloivluuhouiligqlginxxgaxaym

Leeidjqrqiz qqtistxaqqghourihoatqlrqgibki oaxbcxtdlveqoqrr,ilogirqqhou
jhbioxniqpjhvhdhouirdtxouirkbsdxbrixciaxoae ghouijhriv rhoqrr
xsqtldhxor,ilogif bshouihodxivqginhdjibq,iHidjx ujdihdinlrijhujidhbq,
oxnixtioq.qt,ivqcxtqidjqiehujdinlris dix d,idxivtqlyidjqirsqeeihoinjhaj
Hijlgirxiexouivqqoivx ogm

V didjqihodqt.leiHirsqodihoigqehvqtldhouinjldidxirlk,inlrilicldleixoqm
Dlyhoui sijhridxbljlnyictxbidjqidlveq,ijqiqplbhoqgidjqijqlgixcihdicxt
loihordlod,ilogidjqoijxeghouihdidxidjqiehujd,inhdjijhribx djildidjq
jlogeq,ijqis ccqgix diutqldiaex grixcidxvlaaxirbxyqmiDjqioqpdibxbqod
djqiehujdinlriqpdhou hrjqg,ilogidjhrinhegialoohvle,idxbljlnyivqdnqqo
jhridqqdj,irstlouihodxivqginhdjibqmiHirlouix d,iHiax egioxdijqesihd
oxn;ilogiuh.houilir ggqoiut odixcilrdxohrjbqodijqivquloicqqehouibqm

Rdlbbqthouix dirxbqdjhou,iHiyoqnioxdinjld,iHitxeeqgilnlkictxbijhb
lulhordidjqinlee,ilogidjqoiaxof tqgijhb,injxq.qtixtinjldq.qtijqibhujd
vq,idxiyqqsiz hqd,ilogieqdibqiuqdi silogiehujdidjqielbsilulhomiV dijhr
u dd tleitqrsxorqrirldhrchqgibqildixoaqidjldijqiv diheeiaxbstqjqogqgibk
bqlohoum

“Njx-qigqvqeikx ?”—jqildielrdirlhg—“kx ioxirsqly-q,iglb-bq,iHiyhee-qm”
Logirxirlkhouidjqiehujdqgidxbljlnyivquloicex thrjhouilvx dibqihoidjq
gltym

“Elogextg,icxtiUxg’rirlyq,iSqdqtiAxccho!”irjx dqgiHmi“Elogextg!iNldaj!
Axccho!iLouqer!irl.qibq!”

“Rsqly-q!idqee-qqibqinjx-qqivq,ixtiglb-bq,iHiyhee-q!”ilulhoiutxneqgidjq
aloohvle,injheqijhrijxtthgicex thrjhourixcidjqidxbljlnyiralddqtqgidjq
jxdidxvlaaxilrjqrilvx dibqidheeiHidjx ujdibkiehoqoinx egiuqdixoichtqm
V didjloyijql.qo,ildidjldibxbqodidjqielogextgialbqihodxidjqitxxbiehujd
hoijlog,ilogieqlshouictxbidjqivqgiHitloi sidxijhbm

“Gxo’divqilctlhgioxn,”irlhgijq,iuthoohouilulho,i“Z qqz quijqtqinx ego’d
jltbilijlhtixcikx tijqlgm”

“Rdxsikx tiuthoohou,”irjx dqgiH,i“loginjkighgo’dikx idqeeibqidjldidjld
hocqtoleijltsxxoqqtinlrilialoohvle?”

“Hidjx ujdikqiyoxn’gihd;—ghgo’diHidqeeikq,ijqinlrilisqggeho’ijqlgr
ltx ogidxno?—v did toice yqrilulhoilogiuxidxireqqsmiZ qqz qu,iexxy
jqtq—kx irlvvqqibq,iHirlvvqq—kx idjhribloireqqsqikx —kx irlvvqq?”

“Bqirlvvqqiseqodk”—ut odqgiZ qqz qu,is cchouilnlkildijhrishsqilog
rhddhoui sihoivqgm

“Kx iuqddqqiho,”ijqilggqg,ibxdhxohouidxibqinhdjijhridxbljlny,ilog
djtxnhouidjqiaexdjqridxixoqirhgqmiJqitqleekighgidjhrihoioxdixoekil
ah.heiv dilitqleekiyhogilogiajlthdlveqinlkmiHirdxxgiexxyhouildijhbil
bxbqodmiCxtileeijhridlddxxhourijqinlrixoidjqinjxeqiliaeqlo,iaxbqek
exxyhouialoohvlemiNjld’rileeidjhric rriHijl.qivqqoiblyhouilvx d,
djx ujdiHidxibkrqec—djqiblo’rilij bloivqhouif rdilriHilb:ijqijlrif rd
lrib ajitqlrxoidxicqltibq,ilriHijl.qidxivqilctlhgixcijhbmiVqddqtireqqs
nhdjilirxvqtialoohvleidjloiligt oyqoiAjthrdhlom

“Elogextg,”irlhgiH,i“dqeeijhbidxirdlrjijhridxbljlnyidjqtq,ixtishsq,ixt
njldq.qtikx ialeeihd;idqeeijhbidxirdxsirbxyhou,ihoirjxtd,ilogiHinhee
d toihoinhdjijhbmiV diHigxo’dicloakijl.houilibloirbxyhouihoivqginhdj
bqmiHd’riglouqtx rmiVqrhgqr,iHilho’dihor tqgm”

DjhrivqhouidxegidxiZ qqz qu,ijqildixoaqiaxbsehqg,ilogilulhoisxehdqek
bxdhxoqgibqidxiuqdihodxivqg—txeehouix.qtidxixoqirhgqilrib ajilridx
rlk—“Hinxo’didx ajiliequixcikqm”

“Uxxgiohujd,ielogextg,”irlhgiH,i“kx iblkiuxm”

Hid toqgiho,ilogioq.qtireqsdivqddqtihoibkiehcqm


AJLSDQTi4miDjqiAx odqtsloqm

 sxoinlyhouioqpdibxtohouilvx diglkehujd,iHicx ogiZ qqz qu’riltbidjtxno
x.qtibqihoidjqibxrdiex.houilogilccqadhxoldqiblooqtmiKx ijlgilebxrd
djx ujdiHijlgivqqoijhrinhcqmiDjqiax odqtsloqinlrixcisldajnxty,ic eeixc
xggiehddeqisltdh-axex tqgirz ltqrilogidthloueqr;ilogidjhriltbixcijhr
dlddxxqgileeix.qtinhdjiloihodqtbholveqiAtqdloielvkthodjixcilichu tq,iox
dnxisltdrixcinjhajinqtqixcixoqistqahrqirjlgq—xnhouiHir ssxrqidxijhr
yqqshouijhriltbildirqli obqdjxghaleekihoir oilogirjlgq,ijhrirjhtd
reqq.qrihttqu eltekitxeeqgi sildi.lthx ridhbqr—djhrirlbqiltbixcijhr,iH
rlk,iexxyqgicxtileeidjqinxtegiehyqilirdthsixcidjldirlbqisldajnxty
z hedmiHogqqg,isltdekiekhouixoihdilridjqiltbighginjqoiHichtrdilnxyq,iH
ax egijltgekidqeeihdictxbidjqiz hed,idjqkirxiveqogqgidjqhtij qr
dxuqdjqt;ilogihdinlrixoekivkidjqirqorqixcinqhujdilogistqrr tqidjldiH
ax egidqeeidjldiZ qqz quinlrij uuhouibqm

BkirqorldhxorinqtqirdtlouqmiEqdibqidtkidxiqpselhoidjqbmiNjqoiHinlril
ajheg,iHinqeeitqbqbvqtilirxbqnjldirhbheltiahta brdloaqidjldivqcqeeibq;
njqdjqtihdinlrilitqlehdkixtiligtqlb,iHioq.qtiax egiqodhtqekirqddeqmiDjq
ahta brdloaqinlridjhrmiHijlgivqqoia ddhoui sirxbqialsqtixtixdjqt—H
djhoyihdinlridtkhouidxiatlnei sidjqiajhboqk,ilriHijlgirqqoiliehddeq
rnqqsigxilicqniglkristq.hx r;ilogibkirdqsbxdjqtinjx,irxbqjxnixtixdjqt,
nlrileeidjqidhbqinjhsshouibq,ixtirqoghouibqidxivqgir ssqteqrr,—bk
bxdjqtigtluuqgibqivkidjqiequrix dixcidjqiajhboqkilogislayqgibqixccidx
vqg,idjx ujihdinlrixoekidnxix’aexayihoidjqilcdqtoxxoixcidjqi21rdiF oq,
djqiexouqrdiglkihoidjqikqltihoix tijqbhrsjqtqmiHicqedigtqlgc eekmiV d
djqtqinlrioxijqesicxtihd,irxi sirdlhtriHinqodidxibkiehddeqitxxbihoidjq
djhtgicexxt,i ogtqrrqgibkrqecilrirexnekilrisxrrhveqirxilridxiyheeidhbq,
loginhdjilivhddqtirhujiuxdivqdnqqoidjqirjqqdrm

Hielkidjqtqighrbleekialea eldhouidjldirhpdqqoiqodhtqijx trib rdiqelsrq
vqcxtqiHiax egijxsqicxtilitqr ttqadhxomiRhpdqqoijx trihoivqg!idjqirblee
xcibkivlayilajqgidxidjhoyixcihdmiLogihdinlrirxiehujdidxx;idjqir o
rjhohouihoildidjqinhogxn,ilogiliutqlditlddehouixciaxlajqrihoidjq
rdtqqdr,ilogidjqirx ogixciulki.xhaqrileeix.qtidjqijx rqmiHicqedinxtrq
loginxtrq—ldielrdiHiuxdi s,igtqrrqg,ilogirxcdekiuxhouigxnoihoibk
rdxayhouqgicqqd,irx ujdix dibkirdqsbxdjqt,ilogir ggqoekidjtqnibkrqecild
jqticqqd,ivqrqqajhouijqtilrilisltdha elticl.x tidxiuh.qibqiliuxxg
rehssqthouicxtibkibhrvqjl.hx t;ilokdjhouihogqqgiv diaxogqbohouibqidx
ehqilvqgir ajiloi oqog tlveqieqoudjixcidhbqmiV dirjqinlridjqivqrdilog
bxrdiaxorahqodhx rixcirdqsbxdjqtr,ilogivlayiHijlgidxiuxidxibkitxxbmiCxt
rq.qtleijx triHielkidjqtqivtxlgilnlyq,icqqehouiliutqldigqleinxtrqidjlo
Hijl.qiq.qtigxoqirhoaq,iq.qoictxbidjqiutqldqrdir vrqz qodibhrcxtd oqrm
LdielrdiHib rdijl.qicleeqoihodxilidtx veqgiohujdbltqixciligxwq;ilog
rexnekinlyhouictxbihd—jlecirdqqsqgihoigtqlbr—Hixsqoqgibkiqkqr,ilogidjq
vqcxtqir o-ehditxxbinlrioxnintlssqgihoix dqtigltyoqrrmiHordlodekiHicqed
lirjxayit oohouidjtx ujileeibkictlbq;ioxdjhouinlridxivqirqqo,ilog
oxdjhouinlridxivqijqltg;iv dilir sqtold tleijlogirqqbqgiselaqgihoibhoqm
Bkiltbij ouix.qtidjqiax odqtsloq,ilogidjqiolbqeqrr,i ohbluholveq,
rheqodicxtbixtisjlodxb,idxinjhajidjqijlogivqexouqg,irqqbqgiaexrqek
rqldqgivkibkivqg-rhgqmiCxtinjldirqqbqgiluqrisheqgixoiluqr,iHielkidjqtq,
ctxwqoinhdjidjqibxrdilnc eicqltr,ioxdiglthouidxigtluilnlkibkijlog;ikqd
q.qtidjhoyhouidjldihciHiax egiv dirdhtihdixoqirhoueqihoaj,idjqijxtthg
rsqeeinx egivqivtxyqomiHiyoqnioxdijxnidjhriaxorahx roqrrildielrdiuehgqg
lnlkictxbibq;iv dinlyhouihoidjqibxtohou,iHirj ggqthouekitqbqbvqtqgihd
lee,ilogicxtiglkriloginqqyrilogibxodjrilcdqtnltgriHiexrdibkrqeciho
axocx oghouilddqbsdridxiqpselhoidjqibkrdqtkmiOlk,idxidjhri.qtkijx t,iH
xcdqois wweqibkrqecinhdjihdm

Oxn,idlyqilnlkidjqilnc eicqlt,ilogibkirqorldhxorildicqqehouidjq
r sqtold tleijlogihoibhoqinqtqi.qtkirhbhelt,ihoidjqhtirdtlouqoqrr,idx
djxrqinjhajiHiqpsqthqoaqgixoinlyhoui silogirqqhouiZ qqz qu’risluloiltb
djtxnoitx ogibqmiV dildieqoudjileeidjqislrdiohujd’riq.qodrirxvqtek
tqa ttqg,ixoqivkixoq,ihoichpqgitqlehdk,ilogidjqoiHielkixoekileh.qidx
djqiaxbhaleistqghalbqodmiCxtidjx ujiHidthqgidxibx.qijhriltb— oexayijhr
vthgqutxxbiaelrs—kqd,ireqqshouilrijqinlr,ijqirdheeij uuqgibqidhujdek,
lridjx ujiol ujdiv digqldjirjx egisltdi ridnlhomiHioxnirdtx.qidxitx rq
jhb—“Z qqz qu!”—v dijhrixoekilornqtinlriliroxtqmiHidjqoitxeeqgix.qt,ibk
oqayicqqehouilrihcihdinqtqihoilijxtrq-axeelt;ilogir ggqoekicqedil
rehujdiratldajmiDjtxnhouilrhgqidjqiax odqtsloq,idjqtqielkidjqidxbljlny
reqqshouivkidjqirl.luq’rirhgq,ilrihcihdinqtqilijldajqd-claqgivlvkmiL
stqddkishayeq,idt ek,idjx ujdiH;ilvqgijqtqihoilirdtlouqijx rqihoidjq
vtxlgiglk,inhdjilialoohvleilogilidxbljlny!i“Z qqz qu!—hoidjqiolbqixc
uxxgoqrr,iZ qqz qu,inlyq!”iLdieqoudj,ivkighodixcib ajinthuuehou,ilog
ex gilogihoaqrrlodiqpsxrd eldhxori sxoidjqi ovqaxbhouoqrrixcijhr
j uuhouilicqeexnibleqihoidjldibldthbxohleirxtdixcirdkeq,iHir aaqqgqgiho
qpdtladhouiliut od;ilogistqrqodek,ijqigtqnivlayijhriltb,irjxxyijhbrqec
leeix.qtiehyqiliOqncx ogelogigxuif rdictxbidjqinldqt,ilogirldi siho
vqg,irdhccilrilishyq-rdlcc,iexxyhouildibq,ilogit vvhouijhriqkqrilrihc
jqighgioxdiledxuqdjqtitqbqbvqtijxniHialbqidxivqidjqtq,idjx ujilighb
axorahx roqrrixciyoxnhouirxbqdjhouilvx dibqirqqbqgirexnekiglnohouix.qt
jhbmiBqlonjheq,iHielkiz hqdekiqkqhouijhb,ijl.houioxirqthx ribhruh.hour
oxn,ilogivqodi sxoiolttxnekixvrqt.houirxia thx riliatqld tqmiNjqo,ild
elrd,ijhribhogirqqbqgiblgqi sidx ajhouidjqiajltladqtixcijhrivqgcqeexn,
logijqivqalbq,ilrihdinqtq,itqaxoaheqgidxidjqiclad;ijqif bsqgix di sxo
djqicexxt,ilogivkiaqtdlhoirhuorilogirx ogriul.qibqidxi ogqtrdlogidjld,
hcihdiseqlrqgibq,ijqinx egigtqrrichtrdilogidjqoieql.qibqidxigtqrr
lcdqtnltgr,ieql.houidjqinjxeqilsltdbqodidxibkrqecmiDjhoyriH,iZ qqz qu,
 ogqtidjqiahta brdloaqr,idjhrihrili.qtkiah.hehwqgix.qtd tq;iv d,idjq
dt djihr,idjqrqirl.luqrijl.qiloihooldqirqorqixcigqehalak,irlkinjldikx 
nhee;ihdihriblt.qeex rijxniqrrqodhleekisxehdqidjqkiltqmiHislkidjhr
sltdha eltiaxbsehbqodidxiZ qqz qu,ivqal rqijqidtqldqgibqinhdjirxib aj
ah.hehdkilogiaxorhgqtldhxo,injheqiHinlriu hedkixciutqldit gqoqrr;
rdlthouildijhbictxbidjqivqg,iloginldajhouileeijhridxheqddqibxdhxor;icxt
djqidhbqibkia thxrhdkiuqddhouidjqivqddqtixcibkivtqqghoumiOq.qtdjqeqrr,
libloiehyqiZ qqz quikx igxo’dirqqiq.qtkiglk,ijqilogijhrinlkrinqtqinqee
nxtdji o r leitqultghoum

Jqiaxbbqoaqgigtqrrhouildidxsivkigxoohouijhrivql.qtijld,ili.qtkidlee
xoq,ivkidjqivk,ilogidjqo—rdheeibho rijhridtxnrqtr—jqij odqgi sijhr
vxxdrmiNjldi ogqtidjqijql.qorijqighgihdicxt,iHialooxdidqee,iv dijhr
oqpdibx.qbqodinlridxiat rjijhbrqec—vxxdrihoijlog,ilogijldixo— ogqtidjq
vqg;injqo,ictxbir ogtki.hxeqodiulrshourilogirdtlhohour,iHihocqttqgijq
nlrijltgildinxtyivxxdhouijhbrqec;idjx ujivkioxielnixcistxsthqdkidjldiH
q.qtijqltgixc,ihrilokibloitqz htqgidxivqisth.ldqinjqois ddhouixoijhr
vxxdrmiV diZ qqz qu,igxikx irqq,inlriliatqld tqihoidjqidtlorhdhxo
rdluq—oqhdjqtialdqtsheeltioxtiv ddqtcekmiJqinlrif rdiqox ujiah.hehwqg
dxirjxnixccijhrix deloghrjoqrrihoidjqirdtlouqrdisxrrhveqiblooqtrmiJhr
qg aldhxoinlrioxdikqdiaxbseqdqgmiJqinlriloi ogqtutlg ldqmiHcijqijlgioxd
vqqoilirbleeigqutqqiah.hehwqg,ijqi.qtkistxvlvekinx egioxdijl.qidtx veqg
jhbrqecinhdjivxxdrildilee;iv didjqo,ihcijqijlgioxdivqqoirdheeilirl.luq,
jqioq.qtinx egijl.qigtqlbdixciuqddhoui ogqtidjqivqgidxis didjqbixomiLd
elrd,ijqiqbqtuqginhdjijhrijldi.qtkib ajigqodqgilogiat rjqgigxnoix.qt
jhriqkqr,ilogivquloiatqlyhouilogiehbshouilvx didjqitxxb,ilrihc,ioxd
vqhouib ajilaa rdxbqgidxivxxdr,ijhrislhtixciglbs,inthoyeqgiaxnjhgq
xoqr—stxvlvekioxdiblgqidxixtgqtiqhdjqt—tldjqtishoajqgilogidxtbqodqgijhb
ldidjqichtrdiuxixccixcilivhddqtiaxegibxtohoum

Rqqhou,ioxn,idjldidjqtqinqtqioxia tdlhoridxidjqinhogxn,ilogidjldidjq
rdtqqdivqhoui.qtkiolttxn,idjqijx rqixssxrhdqiaxbblogqgiliselhoi.hqn
hodxidjqitxxb,ilogixvrqt.houibxtqilogibxtqidjqihogqaxtx richu tqidjld
Z qqz quiblgq,irdl.houilvx dinhdjiehddeqiqerqiv dijhrijldilogivxxdrixo;
HivquuqgijhbilrinqeeilriHiax eg,idxilaaqeqtldqijhridxheqdirxbqnjld,ilog
sltdha eltekidxiuqdihodxijhrislodlexxorilrirxxoilrisxrrhveqmiJq
axbsehqg,ilogidjqoistxaqqgqgidxinlrjijhbrqecmiLdidjldidhbqihoidjq
bxtohouilokiAjthrdhloinx egijl.qinlrjqgijhriclaq;iv diZ qqz qu,idxibk
lblwqbqod,iaxodqodqgijhbrqecinhdjitqrdthadhouijhrilve dhxoridxijhr
ajqrd,iltbr,ilogijlogrmiJqidjqoigxooqgijhrinlhrdaxld,ilogidlyhoui sil
shqaqixcijltgirxlsixoidjqinlrj-rdlogiaqodtqidlveq,ighssqgihdihodxinldqt
logiaxbbqoaqgieldjqthouijhriclaqmiHinlrinldajhouidxirqqinjqtqijqiyqsd
jhritlwxt,injqoiexilogivqjxeg,ijqidlyqridjqijltsxxoictxbidjqivqg
axtoqt,irehsrix didjqiexouinxxgqoirdxay,i orjqldjqridjqijqlg,injqdrihd
liehddeqixoijhrivxxd,ilogirdthghoui sidxidjqivhdixcibhttxtilulhordidjq
nlee,ivquhorili.huxtx riratlshou,ixtitldjqtijltsxxohouixcijhriajqqyrm
DjhoyriH,iZ qqz qu,idjhrihri rhouiTxuqtr’rivqrdia deqtkinhdjil
.qouqloaqmiLcdqtnltgriHinxogqtqgidjqieqrrildidjhrixsqtldhxoinjqoiHialbq
dxiyoxnixcinjldichoqirdqqeidjqijqlgixcilijltsxxoihriblgq,ilogijxn
qpaqqghouekirjltsidjqiexouirdtlhujdiqguqriltqilenlkriyqsdm

Djqitqrdixcijhridxheqdinlrirxxoilajhq.qg,ilogijqistx gekibltajqgix dixc
djqitxxb,intlssqgi sihoijhriutqldishexdibxoyqkiflayqd,ilogirsxtdhouijhr
jltsxxoiehyqilibltrjle’rivldxom


AJLSDQTi5miVtqlyclrdm

Hiz hayekicxeexnqgir hd,ilogigqraqoghouihodxidjqivlt-txxbilaaxrdqgidjq
uthoohouielogextgi.qtkiseqlrlodekmiHiajqthrjqgioxiblehaqidxnltgrijhb,
djx ujijqijlgivqqoirykeltyhouinhdjibqioxdiliehddeqihoidjqiblddqtixcibk
vqgcqeexnm

Jxnq.qt,iliuxxgiel ujihrilibhujdkiuxxgidjhou,ilogitldjqtidxxiraltaqil
uxxgidjhou;idjqibxtq’ridjqishdkmiRx,ihcilokixoqiblo,ihoijhrixnoistxsqt
sqtrxo,ilccxtgird ccicxtiliuxxgifxyqidxilokvxgk,ieqdijhbioxdivq
vlaynltg,iv dieqdijhbiajqqtc eekileexnijhbrqecidxirsqogilogivqirsqodiho
djldinlkmiLogidjqibloidjldijlrilokdjhouivx odhc eekiel ujlveqilvx d
jhb,ivqir tqidjqtqihribxtqihoidjldibloidjloikx isqtjlsridjhoyicxtm

Djqivlt-txxbinlrioxnic eeixcidjqivxltgqtrinjxijlgivqqoigtxsshouihoidjq
ohujdistq.hx r,iloginjxbiHijlgioxdilrikqdijlgiliuxxgiexxyildmiDjqkinqtq
oqltekileeinjleqbqo;iajhqcibldqr,ilogirqaxogibldqr,ilogidjhtgibldqr,
logirqlialtsqodqtr,ilogirqliaxxsqtr,ilogirqlivelayrbhdjr,ilog
jltsxxoqqtr,ilogirjhsiyqqsqtr;ilivtxnoilogivtlnokiaxbslok,inhdjivxryk
vqltgr;iloi orjxto,irjluukirqd,ileeinqlthouibxoyqkiflayqdricxtibxtohou
uxnorm

Kx iax egistqddkiselhoekidqeeijxniexouiqlajixoqijlgivqqoilrjxtqmiDjhr
kx ouicqeexn’rijqledjkiajqqyihriehyqilir o-dxlrdqgisqltihoij q,ilog
nx egirqqbidxirbqeeilebxrdilrib ryk;ijqialooxdijl.qivqqoidjtqqiglkr
elogqgictxbijhriHoghloi.xkluqmiDjldibloioqpdijhbiexxyrilicqnirjlgqr
ehujdqt;ikx ibhujdirlkilidx ajixcirldhoinxxgihrihoijhbmiHoidjq
axbseqphxoixcilidjhtgirdheeiehouqtrilidtxshaidlno,iv direhujdek
veqlajqginhdjle;i_jq_igx vdeqrrijlridltthqginjxeqinqqyrilrjxtqmiV dinjx
ax egirjxniliajqqyiehyqiZ qqz qu?injhaj,ivlttqginhdji.lthx ridhodr,
rqqbqgiehyqidjqiLogqr’inqrdqtoirexsq,idxirjxnicxtdjihoixoqilttlk,
axodtlrdhouiaehbldqr,iwxoqivkiwxoqm

“Ut v,ijx!”ioxniathqgidjqielogextg,icehouhouixsqoiligxxt,ilogihoinq
nqodidxivtqlyclrdm

Djqkirlkidjldibqoinjxijl.qirqqoidjqinxteg,idjqtqvkivqaxbqiz hdqildiqlrq
hoiblooqt,iz hdqirqec-sxrrqrrqgihoiaxbslokmiOxdilenlkr,idjx uj:
Eqgkltg,idjqiutqldiOqniQouelogidtl.qeeqt,ilogiB ouxiSlty,idjqiRaxdaj
xoq;ixcileeibqo,idjqkisxrrqrrqgidjqieqlrdilrr tloaqihoidjqisltextmiV d
sqtjlsridjqibqtqiatxrrhouixciRhvqthlihoilireqguqigtlnoivkigxurilr
Eqgkltgighg,ixtidjqidlyhouiliexouirxehdltkinleyixoiloiqbsdkirdxblaj,iho
djqioqutxijqltdixciLcthal,injhajinlridjqir bixcisxxtiB oux’r
sqtcxtbloaqr—djhriyhogixcidtl.qe,iHirlk,iblkioxdivqidjqi.qtkivqrdibxgq
xcilddlhohouilijhujirxahleisxehrjmiRdhee,icxtidjqibxrdisltd,idjldirxtd
xcidjhouihridxivqijlgiloknjqtqm

Djqrqitqceqadhxorif rdijqtqiltqixaalrhxoqgivkidjqiahta brdloaqidjld
lcdqtinqinqtqileeirqldqgildidjqidlveq,ilogiHinlristqslthouidxijqltirxbq
uxxgirdxthqrilvx dinjlehou;idxibkioxirbleeir tsthrq,ioqltekiq.qtkiblo
blhodlhoqgilistxcx ogirheqoaqmiLogioxdixoekidjld,iv didjqkiexxyqg
qbvlttlrrqgmiKqr,ijqtqinqtqilirqdixcirql-gxur,iblokixcinjxbinhdjx didjq
rehujdqrdivlrjc eoqrrijlgivxltgqgiutqldinjleqrixoidjqijhujirqlr—qodhtq
rdtlouqtridxidjqb—logig qeeqgidjqbigqlginhdjx dinhoyhou;ilogikqd,ijqtq
djqkirldildilirxahleivtqlyclrdidlveq—leeixcidjqirlbqialeehou,ileeixc
yhogtqgidlrdqr—exxyhouitx ogilrirjqqshrjekildiqlajixdjqtilridjx ujidjqk
jlgioq.qtivqqoix dixcirhujdixcirxbqirjqqscxegilbxouidjqiUtqqo
Bx odlhormiLia thx rirhujd;idjqrqivlrjc eivqltr,idjqrqidhbhginltthxt
njleqbqo!

V dilricxtiZ qqz qu—njk,iZ qqz quirldidjqtqilbxouidjqb—ldidjqijqlgixc
djqidlveq,idxx,ihdirxiajloaqg;ilriaxxeilriloihahaeqmiDxivqir tqiH
alooxdirlkib ajicxtijhrivtqqghoumiJhriutqldqrdilgbhtqtiax egioxdijl.q
axtghleekif rdhchqgijhrivthouhouijhrijltsxxoihodxivtqlyclrdinhdjijhb,
logi rhouihdidjqtqinhdjx diaqtqbxok;itqlajhouix.qtidjqidlveqinhdjihd,
dxidjqihbbhoqodifqxsltgkixciblokijqlgr,ilogiutlssehouidjqivqqcrdqlyr
dxnltgrijhbmiV di_djld_inlriaqtdlhoeki.qtkiaxxeekigxoqivkijhb,ilog
q.qtkixoqiyoxnridjldihoibxrdisqxseq’riqrdhbldhxo,idxigxilokdjhouiaxxeek
hridxigxihdiuqodqqeekm

NqinheeioxdirsqlyixcileeiZ qqz qu’risqa ehlthdhqrijqtq;ijxnijqiqrajqnqg
axccqqilogijxditxeer,ilogilssehqgijhri ogh.hgqgilddqodhxoidx
vqqcrdqlyr,igxoqitltqmiQox uj,idjldinjqoivtqlyclrdinlrix.qtijqinhdjgtqn
ehyqidjqitqrdihodxidjqis vehaitxxb,iehujdqgijhridxbljlny-shsq,iloginlr
rhddhouidjqtqiz hqdekighuqrdhouilogirbxyhouinhdjijhrihorqsltlveqijld
xo,injqoiHirleehqgix dicxtilirdtxeem


AJLSDQTi6miDjqiRdtqqdm

HciHijlgivqqoilrdxohrjqgildichtrdialdajhouiliuehbsrqixcirxix deloghrj
loihogh.hg leilriZ qqz quiahta eldhouilbxouidjqisxehdqirxahqdkixcil
ah.hehwqgidxno,idjldilrdxohrjbqodirxxoigqsltdqgi sxoidlyhouibkichtrd
glkehujdirdtxeeidjtx ujidjqirdtqqdrixciOqniVqgcxtgm

Hoidjxtx ujcltqriohujidjqigxayr,ilokiaxorhgqtlveqirqlsxtdinhee
ctqz qodekixccqtidxi.hqnidjqiz qqtqrdiexxyhouioxogqrathsdrictxbicxtqhuo
sltdrmiQ.qoihoiVtxlgnlkilogiAjqrdo dirdtqqdr,iBqghdqttloqloiblthoqtr
nheeirxbqdhbqrifxrdeqidjqilccthujdqgielghqrmiTquqodiRdtqqdihrioxd
 oyoxnoidxiElraltrilogiBlelkr;ilogildiVxbvlk,ihoidjqiLsxeexiUtqqo,ieh.q
Kloyqqrijl.qixcdqoiraltqgidjqioldh.qrmiV diOqniVqgcxtgivqldrileeiNldqt
RdtqqdilogiNlsshoumiHoidjqrqielrd-bqodhxoqgijl odrikx irqqixoek
rlhextr;iv dihoiOqniVqgcxtg,ilad leialoohvlerirdlogiajlddhouildirdtqqd
axtoqtr;irl.luqrix dthujd;iblokixcinjxbikqdialttkixoidjqhtivxoqri ojxek
ceqrjmiHdiblyqrilirdtlouqtirdltqm

V d,ivqrhgqridjqiCqquqqlor,iDxouldxvxxlttr,iQttxblouuxlor,iSloolouhlor,
logiVthujuuhlor,ilog,ivqrhgqridjqinhegirsqahbqorixcidjqinjlehou-atlcd
njhaji ojqqgqgitqqeilvx didjqirdtqqdr,ikx inheeirqqixdjqtirhujdrirdhee
bxtqia thx r,iaqtdlhoekibxtqiaxbhalemiDjqtqinqqyekiltth.qihoidjhridxno
raxtqrixciutqqoi.qtbxodqtrilogiOqniJlbsrjhtqibqo,ileeildjhtrdicxtiulho
logiuextkihoidjqichrjqtkmiDjqkiltqibxrdekikx ou,ixcirdlenltdictlbqr;
cqeexnrinjxijl.qicqeeqgicxtqrdr,ilogioxnirqqyidxigtxsidjqilpqilog
roldajidjqinjleq-eloaqmiBlokiltqilriutqqoilridjqiUtqqoiBx odlhorinjqoaq
djqkialbqmiHoirxbqidjhourikx inx egidjhoyidjqbiv dilicqnijx trixegm
Exxyidjqtq!idjldiajlsirdt ddhouitx ogidjqiaxtoqtmiJqinqltrilivql.qtijld
logirnleexn-dlheqgiaxld,iuhtgeqginhdjilirlhext-vqedilogirjqldj-yohcqm
Jqtqiaxbqriloxdjqtinhdjilirx ’-nqrdqtilogilivxbvlwhoqiaexlym

Oxidxno-vtqgiglogkinheeiaxbsltqinhdjiliax odtk-vtqgixoq—Hibqloil
gxnothujdiv bsyhoiglogk—licqeexnidjld,ihoidjqigxu-glkr,inheeibxnijhr
dnxilatqrihoiv ayryhoiuex.qricxticqltixcidloohouijhrijlogrmiOxninjqoil
ax odtkiglogkiehyqidjhridlyqrihdihodxijhrijqlgidxiblyqilighrdhou hrjqg
tqs dldhxo,ilogifxhoridjqiutqldinjleq-chrjqtk,ikx irjx egirqqidjq
axbhaleidjhourijqigxqri sxoitqlajhouidjqirqlsxtdmiHoivqrsqlyhouijhr
rql-x dchd,ijqixtgqtrivqee-v ddxoridxijhrinlhrdaxldr;irdtlsridxijhr
alo.lridtxnrqtrmiLj,isxxtiJlk-Rqqg!ijxnivhddqtekinheeiv trdidjxrq
rdtlsrihoidjqichtrdijxnehouiuleq,injqoidjx iltdigth.qo,irdtlsr,
v ddxor,ilogilee,igxnoidjqidjtxldixcidjqidqbsqrdm

V didjhoyioxdidjldidjhriclbx ridxnoijlrixoekijltsxxoqqtr,ialoohvler,
logiv bsyhoridxirjxnijqti.hrhdxtrmiOxdildileemiRdheeiOqniVqgcxtgihril
z qqtiselaqmiJlgihdioxdivqqoicxti rinjleqbqo,idjldidtladixcieloginx eg
djhriglkisqtjlsrijl.qivqqoihoilrijxnehouiaxoghdhxoilridjqiaxlrdixc
ElvtlgxtmiLrihdihr,isltdrixcijqtivlayiax odtkiltqiqox ujidxicthujdqo
xoq,idjqkiexxyirxivxokmiDjqidxnoihdrqecihrisqtjlsridjqigqltqrdiselaqidx
eh.qiho,ihoileeiOqniQouelogmiHdihrilielogixcixhe,idt qiqox uj:iv dioxd
ehyqiAlollo;ilielog,ilerx,ixciaxtoiloginhoqmiDjqirdtqqdrigxioxdit o
nhdjibhey;ioxtihoidjqirsthou-dhbqigxidjqkisl.qidjqbinhdjictqrjiquurm
Kqd,ihoirshdqixcidjhr,ioxnjqtqihoileeiLbqthalinheeikx ichogibxtq
sldthahlo-ehyqijx rqr;isltyrilogiultgqoribxtqixs eqod,idjloihoiOqn
VqgcxtgmiNjqoaqialbqidjqk?ijxniselodqgi sxoidjhrixoaqiratluukiraxthlixc
liax odtk?

Uxilogiulwqi sxoidjqihtxoiqbveqbldhaleijltsxxoritx ogikxogqtiexcdk
blorhxo,ilogikx tiz qrdhxoinheeivqilornqtqgmiKqr;ileeidjqrqivtl.q
jx rqrilogicexnqtkiultgqorialbqictxbidjqiLdelodha,iSlahcha,ilogiHoghlo
xaqlormiXoqilogilee,idjqkinqtqijltsxxoqgilogigtluuqgi sijhdjqtictxbidjq
vxddxbixcidjqirqlmiAloiJqttiLeqplogqtisqtcxtbilicqldiehyqidjld?

HoiOqniVqgcxtg,icldjqtr,idjqkirlk,iuh.qinjleqricxtigxnqtridxidjqht
gl ujdqtr,ilogisxtdhxoixccidjqhtiohqaqrinhdjilicqnisxtsxhrqril-shqaqm
Kx ib rdiuxidxiOqniVqgcxtgidxirqqilivtheehlodinqgghou;icxt,idjqkirlk,
djqkijl.qitqrqt.xhtrixcixheihoiq.qtkijx rq,ilogiq.qtkiohujditqayeqrrek
v toidjqhtieqoudjrihoirsqtblaqdhialogeqrm

Hoir bbqtidhbq,idjqidxnoihrirnqqdidxirqq;ic eeixcichoqiblseqr—exou
l.qo qrixciutqqoilogiuxegmiLogihoiL u rd,ijhujihoilht,idjqivql dhc e
logivx odhc eijxtrq-ajqrdo dr,ialogqelvtl-nhrq,istxccqtidjqislrrqt-vk
djqhtidlsqthoui sthujdiaxoqrixciaxoutquldqgivexrrxbrmiRxixbohsxdqodihr
ltd;injhajihoiblokilighrdthadixciOqniVqgcxtgijlrir sqthog aqgivthujd
dqttlaqrixcicexnqtri sxoidjqivlttqoitqc rqitxayridjtxnoilrhgqild
atqldhxo’richoleiglkm

LogidjqinxbqoixciOqniVqgcxtg,idjqkivexxbiehyqidjqhtixnoitqgitxrqrmiV d
txrqrixoekivexxbihoir bbqt;injqtqlridjqichoqialtoldhxoixcidjqhtiajqqyr
hrisqtqoohleilrir oehujdihoidjqirq.qodjijql.qormiQerqnjqtqibldajidjld
vexxbixcidjqhtr,ikqialooxd,irl.qihoiRleqb,injqtqidjqkidqeeibqidjqikx ou
uhterivtqldjqir ajib ry,idjqhtirlhextirnqqdjqltdrirbqeeidjqbibheqrixcc
rjxtq,ilridjx ujidjqkinqtqigtlnhouiohujidjqixgxtx riBxe aalrihordqlgixc
djqiS thdlohairlogrm


AJLSDQTi7miDjqiAjlsqem

HoidjhrirlbqiOqniVqgcxtgidjqtqirdlogriliNjleqblo’riAjlsqe,ilogicqniltq
djqibxxgkichrjqtbqo,irjxtdekivx ogicxtidjqiHoghloiXaqloixtiSlahcha,injx
clheidxiblyqiliR oglki.hrhdidxidjqirsxdmiHilbir tqidjldiHighgioxdm

Tqd tohouictxbibkichtrdibxtohouirdtxee,iHilulhoirleehqgix di sxoidjhr
rsqahleiqttlogmiDjqirykijlgiajlouqgictxbiaeqlt,ir ookiaxeg,idxigth.hou
reqqdilogibhrdmiNtlsshouibkrqecihoibkirjluukiflayqdixcidjqiaexdjialeeqg
vqltryho,iHicx ujdibkinlkilulhordidjqird vvxtoirdxtbmiQodqthou,iHicx og
lirbleeiralddqtqgiaxoutquldhxoixcirlhextr,ilogirlhextr’inh.qrilog
nhgxnrmiLib cceqgirheqoaqitqhuoqg,ixoekivtxyqoildidhbqrivkidjqirjthqyr
xcidjqirdxtbmiQlajirheqodinxtrjhssqtirqqbqgis tsxrqekirhddhouilsltd
ctxbidjqixdjqt,ilrihciqlajirheqodiuthqcinqtqihor eltilog
hoaxbb ohalveqmiDjqiajlselhoijlgioxdikqdiltth.qg;ilogidjqtqidjqrq
rheqodihrelogrixcibqoiloginxbqoirldirdqlgclrdekiqkqhouirq.qtleibltveq
dlveqdr,inhdjivelayivxtgqtr,iblrxoqgihodxidjqinleeixoiqhdjqtirhgqidjq
s eshdmiDjtqqixcidjqbitloirxbqdjhouiehyqidjqicxeexnhou,iv diHigxioxd
stqdqogidxiz xdq:—

RLATQGiDXiDJQiBQBXTKiXCiFXJOiDLEVXD,iNjx,ildidjqiluqixciqhujdqqo,inlr
exrdix.qtvxltg,iOqltidjqiHreqixciGqrxeldhxo,ixcciSldluxohl,i_Ox.qbvqt_
1_rd_,i1836miDJHRiDLVEQDiHriqtqadqgidxijhriBqbxtkiVKiJHRiRHRDQTm

RLATQGiDXiDJQiBQBXTKiXCiTXVQTDiEXOU,iNHEEHRiQEEQTK,iOLDJLOiAXEQBLO,
NLEDQTiALOOK,iRQDJiBLAK,iLOGiRLB QEiUEQHU,iCxtbhouixoqixcidjqivxldr’
atqnriXCiDJQiRJHSiQEHWLiNjxinqtqidxnqgix dixcirhujdivkiliNjleq,iXoidjq
Xcc-rjxtqiUtx ogihoidjqiSLAHCHA,i_Gqaqbvqt_i31_rd_,i1839miDJHRiBLTVEQ
Hrijqtqiselaqgivkidjqhtir t.h.houiRJHSBLDQRm

RLATQGiDXiDJQiBQBXTKiXCiDjqieldqiALSDLHOiQWQYHQEiJLTGK,iNjxihoidjqivxnr
xcijhrivxldinlriyheeqgivkiliRsqtbiNjleqixoidjqiaxlrdixciFlslo,i_L u rd_
3_g_,i1833miDJHRiDLVEQDiHriqtqadqgidxijhriBqbxtkiVKiJHRiNHGXNm

Rjlyhouixccidjqireqqdictxbibkihaq-uelwqgijldilogiflayqd,iHirqldqg
bkrqecioqltidjqigxxt,ilogid tohouirhgqnlkrinlrir tsthrqgidxirqq
Z qqz quioqltibqmiLccqadqgivkidjqirxeqbohdkixcidjqiraqoq,idjqtqinlril
nxogqthouiulwqixcihoatqg ex ria thxrhdkihoijhriax odqoloaqmiDjhrirl.luq
nlridjqixoekisqtrxoistqrqodinjxirqqbqgidxioxdhaqibkiqodtloaq;ivqal rq
jqinlridjqixoekixoqinjxiax egioxditqlg,ilog,idjqtqcxtq,inlrioxditqlghou
djxrqicthuhgihorathsdhxorixoidjqinleemiNjqdjqtilokixcidjqitqeldh.qrixc
djqirqlbqoinjxrqiolbqrilssqltqgidjqtqinqtqioxnilbxouidjqiaxoutquldhxo,
Hiyoqnioxd;iv dirxiblokiltqidjqi otqaxtgqgilaahgqodrihoidjqichrjqtk,
logirxiselhoekighgirq.qtleinxbqoistqrqodinqltidjqiax odqoloaqihcioxd
djqidtlsshourixcirxbqi oaqlrhouiuthqc,idjldiHicqqeir tqidjldijqtq
vqcxtqibqinqtqilrrqbveqgidjxrq,ihoinjxrqi ojqlehouijqltdridjqirhujdixc
djxrqiveqlyidlveqdrirkbsldjqdhaleekial rqgidjqixeginx ogridxiveqqg
lctqrjm

Xj!ikqinjxrqigqlgiehqiv thqgivqoqldjidjqiutqqoiutlrr;injxirdloghou
lbxouicexnqtrialoirlk—jqtq,i_jqtq_iehqribkivqex.qg;ikqiyoxnioxdidjq
gqrxeldhxoidjldivtxxgrihoivxrxbriehyqidjqrqmiNjldivhddqtiveloyriho
djxrqivelay-vxtgqtqgibltveqrinjhajiax.qtioxilrjqr!iNjldigqrslhtiho
djxrqihbbx.lveqihorathsdhxor!iNjldigqlgeki.xhgrilogi ovhggqo
hochgqehdhqrihoidjqiehoqridjldirqqbidxiuolni sxoileeiClhdj,ilogitqc rq
tqr ttqadhxoridxidjqivqhourinjxijl.qiselaqeqrrekisqthrjqginhdjx dil
utl.qmiLrinqeeibhujdidjxrqidlveqdrirdlogihoidjqial.qixciQeqsjlodlilr
jqtqm

Hoinjldiaqor rixcieh.houiatqld tqr,idjqigqlgixcibloyhogiltqihoae gqg;
njkihdihridjldili oh.qtrleistx.qtvirlkrixcidjqb,idjldidjqkidqeeiox
dleqr,idjx ujiaxodlhohouibxtqirqatqdridjloidjqiUxxgnhoiRlogr;ijxnihdihr
djldidxijhriolbqinjxikqrdqtglkigqsltdqgicxtidjqixdjqtinxteg,inqistqchp
rxirhuohchalodilogihochgqeilinxtg,ilogikqdigxioxdidj riqodhdeqijhb,ihc
jqiv diqbvltyricxtidjqitqbxdqrdiHoghqrixcidjhrieh.houiqltdj;injkidjq
EhcqiHor tloaqiAxbslohqrislkigqldj-cxtcqhd tqri sxoihbbxtdler;ihoinjld
qdqtole,i ordhtthouisltlekrhr,ilogigqlgek,ijxsqeqrridtloaq,ikqdiehqr
lodhz qiLglbinjxighqgirhpdkitx ogiaqod thqrilux;ijxnihdihridjldinq
rdheeitqc rqidxivqiaxbcxtdqgicxtidjxrqinjxinqioq.qtdjqeqrriblhodlhoiltq
gnqeehouihoi orsqlylveqivehrr;injkileeidjqieh.houirxirdth.qidxij rjilee
djqigqlg;injqtqcxtqiv didjqit bxtixciliyoxayhouihoilidxbvinheeidqtthck
linjxeqiahdkmiLeeidjqrqidjhouriltqioxdinhdjx didjqhtibqlohourm

V diClhdj,iehyqiliflayle,icqqgrilbxouidjqidxbvr,ilogiq.qoictxbidjqrq
gqlgigx vdrirjqiuldjqtrijqtibxrdi.hdleijxsqm

Hdioqqgriraltaqekidxivqidxeg,inhdjinjldicqqehour,ixoidjqiq.qixcil
Olod ayqdi.xkluq,iHitqultgqgidjxrqibltveqidlveqdr,ilogivkidjqib tyk
ehujdixcidjldigltyqoqg,igxeqc eiglkitqlgidjqicldqixcidjqinjleqbqoinjx
jlgiuxoqivqcxtqibqmiKqr,iHrjblqe,idjqirlbqicldqiblkivqidjhoqmiV d
rxbqjxniHiutqnibqttkilulhomiGqehujdc eihog aqbqodridxiqbvlty,ichoq
ajloaqicxtistxbxdhxo,ihdirqqbr—lkq,ilirdx.qivxldinheeiblyqibqilo
hbbxtdleivkivtq.qdmiKqr,idjqtqihrigqldjihoidjhriv rhoqrrixcinjlehou—l
rsqqajeqrrekiz hayiajlxdhaiv ogehouixcilibloihodxiQdqtohdkmiV dinjld
djqo?iBqdjhoyrinqijl.qij uqekibhrdlyqoidjhriblddqtixciEhcqilogiGqldjm
Bqdjhoyridjldinjldidjqkialeeibkirjlgxnijqtqixoiqltdjihribkidt q
r vrdloaqmiBqdjhoyridjldihoiexxyhouildidjhourirshthd le,inqiltqidxx
b ajiehyqixkrdqtrixvrqt.houidjqir oidjtx ujidjqinldqt,ilogidjhoyhou
djldidjhayinldqtidjqidjhooqrdixcilhtmiBqdjhoyribkivxgkihriv didjqieqqr
xcibkivqddqtivqhoumiHoicladidlyqibkivxgkinjxinhee,idlyqihdiHirlk,ihdihr
oxdibqmiLogidjqtqcxtqidjtqqiajqqtricxtiOlod ayqd;ilogiaxbqilirdx.qivxld
logirdx.qivxgkinjqoidjqkinhee,icxtirdl.qibkirx e,iFx.qijhbrqecialooxdm


AJLSDQTi8miDjqiS eshdm

Hijlgioxdivqqoirqldqgi.qtkiexouiqtqilibloixciliaqtdlhoi.qoqtlveq
txv rdoqrriqodqtqg;ihbbqghldqekilridjqirdxtb-sqedqgigxxticeqnivlayi sxo
lgbhddhouijhb,iliz hayitqultgc eiqkqhouixcijhbivkileeidjqiaxoutquldhxo,
r cchahqodekilddqrdqgidjldidjhrichoqixegibloinlridjqiajlselhomiKqr,ihd
nlridjqiclbx riCldjqtiBlsseq,irxialeeqgivkidjqinjleqbqo,ilbxouinjxbijq
nlrili.qtkiutqldicl.x thdqmiJqijlgivqqoilirlhextilogilijltsxxoqqtiho
jhrikx dj,iv dicxtiblokikqltrislrdijlgigqghaldqgijhriehcqidxidjq
bhohrdtkmiLdidjqidhbqiHioxninthdqixc,iCldjqtiBlsseqinlrihoidjqijltgk
nhodqtixcilijqledjkixegiluq;idjldirxtdixcixegiluqinjhajirqqbribqtuhou
hodxilirqaxogicexnqthouikx dj,icxtilbxouileeidjqichrr tqrixcijhr
nthoyeqr,idjqtqirjxoqiaqtdlhoibhegiueqlbrixcilioqnekigq.qexshou
vexxb—djqirsthoui.qtg tqisqqshouicxtdjiq.qoivqoqldjiCqvt ltk’riroxnmiOx
xoqijl.houistq.hx rekijqltgijhrijhrdxtk,iax egicxtidjqichtrdidhbq
vqjxegiCldjqtiBlsseqinhdjx didjqi dbxrdihodqtqrd,ivqal rqidjqtqinqtq
aqtdlhoiqoutlcdqgiaeqthaleisqa ehlthdhqrilvx dijhb,ihbs dlveqidxidjld
lg.qod tx riblthdhbqiehcqijqijlgieqgmiNjqoijqiqodqtqgiHixvrqt.qgidjld
jqialtthqgioxi bvtqeel,ilogiaqtdlhoekijlgioxdiaxbqihoijhrialtthluq,icxt
jhridltsl ehoijlditloigxnoinhdjibqedhouireqqd,ilogijhriutqldishexd
aexdjiflayqdirqqbqgilebxrdidxigtluijhbidxidjqicexxtinhdjidjqinqhujdixc
djqinldqtihdijlgilvrxtvqgmiJxnq.qt,ijldilogiaxldilogix.qtrjxqrinqtqixoq
vkixoqitqbx.qg,ilogij oui sihoiliehddeqirslaqihoiloilgflaqodiaxtoqt;
njqo,ilttlkqgihoiligqaqodir hd,ijqiz hqdekilsstxlajqgidjqis eshdm

Ehyqibxrdixegiclrjhxoqgis eshdr,ihdinlrili.qtkiexcdkixoq,ilogirhoaqil
tqu eltirdlhtridxir ajilijqhujdinx eg,ivkihdriexouiloueqinhdjidjq
cexxt,irqthx rekiaxodtladidjqiletqlgkirbleeiltqlixcidjqiajlsqe,idjq
ltajhdqad,ihdirqqbqg,ijlgiladqgi sxoidjqijhodixciCldjqtiBlsseq,ilog
chohrjqgidjqis eshdinhdjx dilirdlhtr,ir vrdhd dhouilisqtsqogha eltirhgq
elggqt,iehyqidjxrqi rqgihoibx odhouilirjhsictxbilivxldildirqlmiDjqinhcq
xcilinjlehouialsdlhoijlgistx.hgqgidjqiajlsqeinhdjilijlogrxbqislhtixc
tqginxtrdqgiblo-txsqricxtidjhrielggqt,injhaj,ivqhouihdrqeciohaqek
jqlgqg,ilogirdlhoqginhdjilibljxulokiaxex t,idjqinjxeqiaxodth.loaq,
axorhgqthouinjldiblooqtixciajlsqeihdinlr,irqqbqgivkioxibqlorihoivlg
dlrdqmiJledhouicxtiloihordlodildidjqicxxdixcidjqielggqt,iloginhdjivxdj
jlogriutlrshouidjqixtolbqodleiyoxvrixcidjqiblo-txsqr,iCldjqtiBlsseq
alrdiliexxyi snltgr,ilogidjqoinhdjilidt ekirlhext-ehyqiv dirdhee
tq.qtqodhleigqpdqthdk,ijlogix.qtijlog,ibx odqgidjqirdqsrilrihc
lraqoghouidjqiblho-dxsixcijhri.qrrqem

Djqisqtsqogha eltisltdrixcidjhrirhgqielggqt,ilrihri r leekidjqialrq
nhdjirnhouhouixoqr,inqtqixciaexdj-ax.qtqgitxsq,ixoekidjqitx ogrinqtqixc
nxxg,irxidjldildiq.qtkirdqsidjqtqinlrilifxhodmiLdibkichtrdiuehbsrqixc
djqis eshd,ihdijlgioxdiqralsqgibqidjldijxnq.qtiaxo.qohqodicxtilirjhs,
djqrqifxhodrihoidjqistqrqodihordloaqirqqbqgi ooqaqrrltkmiCxtiHinlrioxd
stqsltqgidxirqqiCldjqtiBlsseqilcdqtiulhohouidjqijqhujd,irexnekid to
tx og,ilogirdxxshouix.qtidjqis eshd,igqehvqtldqekigtlui sidjqielggqt
rdqsivkirdqs,idheeidjqinjxeqinlrigqsxrhdqginhdjho,ieql.houijhb
hbstquolveqihoijhriehddeqiZ qvqam

Hisxogqtqgirxbqidhbqinhdjx dic eekiaxbstqjqoghouidjqitqlrxoicxtidjhrm
CldjqtiBlsseqiqofxkqgir ajilinhgqitqs dldhxoicxtirhoaqthdkilog
rloadhdk,idjldiHiax egioxdir rsqadijhbixciax tdhouioxdxthqdkivkilok
bqtqidthayrixcidjqirdluqmiOx,idjx ujdiH,idjqtqib rdivqirxbqirxvqt
tqlrxoicxtidjhridjhou;ic tdjqtbxtq,ihdib rdirkbvxehwqirxbqdjhoui orqqom
Aloihdivq,idjqo,idjldivkidjldiladixcisjkrhaleihrxeldhxo,ijqirhuohchqr
jhrirshthd leinhdjgtlnleicxtidjqidhbq,ictxbileeix dnltginxtegekidhqr
logiaxooqphxor?iKqr,icxtitqseqohrjqginhdjidjqibqldiloginhoqixcidjq
nxtg,idxidjqiclhdjc eibloixciUxg,idjhris eshd,iHirqq,ihril
rqec-axodlhohouirdtxoujxeg—liexcdkiQjtqovtqhdrdqho,inhdjilisqtqoohle
nqeeixcinldqtinhdjhoidjqinleerm

V didjqirhgqielggqtinlrioxdidjqixoekirdtlouqicqld tqixcidjqiselaq,
vxttxnqgictxbidjqiajlselho’ricxtbqtirql-clthourmiVqdnqqoidjqibltveq
aqoxdlsjrixoiqhdjqtijlogixcidjqis eshd,idjqinleeinjhajicxtbqgihdrivlay
nlrilgxtoqginhdjilieltuqislhodhouitqstqrqodhouiliuleelodirjhsivqldhou
lulhordilidqtthveqirdxtbixccilieqqiaxlrdixcivelayitxayrilogiroxnk
vtqlyqtrmiV dijhujilvx.qidjqicekhouira gilogiglty-txeehouiaex gr,idjqtq
cexldqgiliehddeqihreqixcir oehujd,ictxbinjhajivqlbqgicxtdjiloilouqe’r
claq;ilogidjhrivthujdiclaqirjqgilighrdhoadirsxdixcitlghloaqi sxoidjq
rjhs’ridxrrqgigqay,irxbqdjhouiehyqidjldirhe.qtiseldqioxnihorqtdqgihodx
djqi.hadxtk’riseloyinjqtqiOqerxoicqeemi“Lj,ioxveqirjhs,”idjqilouqe
rqqbqgidxirlk,i“vqldixo,ivqldixo,idjx ioxveqirjhs,ilogivqltilijltgk
jqeb;icxtiex!idjqir oihrivtqlyhouidjtx uj;idjqiaex griltqitxeehou
xcc—rqtqoqrdilw tqihrildijlogm”

Oxtinlridjqis eshdihdrqecinhdjx dilidtlaqixcidjqirlbqirql-dlrdqidjld
jlgilajhq.qgidjqielggqtilogidjqishad tqmiHdrisloqeeqgictxodinlrihoidjq
ehyqoqrrixcilirjhs’rive ccivxnr,ilogidjqiJxekiVhveqitqrdqgixoil
stxfqadhouishqaqixciratxeeinxty,iclrjhxoqgilcdqtilirjhs’richggeq-jqlgqg
vqlym

Njldiax egivqibxtqic eeixcibqlohou?—cxtidjqis eshdihriq.qtidjhriqltdj’r
cxtqbxrdisltd;ileeidjqitqrdiaxbqrihoihdritqlt;idjqis eshdieqlgridjq
nxtegmiCtxbidjqoaqihdihridjqirdxtbixciUxg’riz hayintldjihrichtrd
gqrathqg,ilogidjqivxnib rdivqltidjqiqltehqrdivt odmiCtxbidjqoaqihdihr
djqiUxgixcivtqqwqriclhtixticx eihrichtrdiho.xyqgicxticl.x tlveqinhogrm
Kqr,idjqinxteg’rilirjhsixoihdrislrrluqix d,ilogioxdili.xkluqiaxbseqdq;
logidjqis eshdihrihdristxnm


AJLSDQTi9miDjqiRqtbxom

CldjqtiBlsseqitxrq,ilogihoilibhegi.xhaqixci olrr bhouil djxthdkixtgqtqg
djqiralddqtqgisqxseqidxiaxogqorqmi“Rdltvxltgiulounlk,idjqtq!irhgqilnlk
dxieltvxltg—eltvxltgiulounlkidxirdltvxltg!iBhgrjhsr!ibhgrjhsr!”

Djqtqinlriliexnit bvehouixcijql.kirql-vxxdrilbxouidjqivqoajqr,ilogil
rdheeirehujdqtirj ccehouixcinxbqo’rirjxqr,ilogileeinlriz hqdilulho,ilog
q.qtkiqkqixoidjqistqlajqtm

Jqisl rqgiliehddeq;idjqoiyoqqehouihoidjqis eshd’rivxnr,icxegqgijhr
eltuqivtxnoijlogrilatxrrijhriajqrd,i sehcdqgijhriaexrqgiqkqr,ilog
xccqtqgilistlkqtirxigqqsekigq.x didjldijqirqqbqgiyoqqehouilogistlkhou
ldidjqivxddxbixcidjqirqlm

Djhriqogqg,ihoistxexouqgirxeqboidxoqr,iehyqidjqiaxodho leidxeehouixcil
vqeeihoilirjhsidjldihricx ogqthouildirqlihoilicxu—hoir ajidxoqrijq
axbbqoaqgitqlghouidjqicxeexnhouijkbo;iv diajlouhouijhriblooqtidxnltgr
djqiaxoae ghouirdlowlr,iv trdicxtdjinhdjilisqlehouiqp edldhxoilogifxk—


ii“Djqithvrilogidqttxtrihoidjqinjleq,iLtajqgix.qtibqilighrbleiuexxb,
iiNjheqileeiUxg’rir o-ehdinl.qritxeeqgivk,iLogiehcdibqigqqsqohouigxno
iidxigxxbm

ii“Hirlnidjqixsqohouiblnixcijqee,iNhdjiqogeqrrislhorilogirxttxnridjqtq;
iiNjhajioxoqiv didjqkidjldicqqeialoidqee—iXj,iHinlrise ouhouidx
iigqrslhtm

ii“Hoivelayighrdtqrr,iHialeeqgibkiUxg,iNjqoiHiax egiraltaqivqehq.qijhb
iibhoq,iJqivxnqgijhriqltidxibkiaxbselhodr—iOxibxtqidjqinjleqighgibq
iiaxochoqm

ii“Nhdjirsqqgijqiceqnidxibkitqehqc,iLrixoilitlghlodigxesjhoivxtoq;
iiLnc e,ikqdivthujd,ilriehujdohouirjxoqiDjqiclaqixcibkiGqeh.qtqtiUxgm

ii“Bkirxouicxtiq.qtirjleeitqaxtgiDjldidqtthveq,idjldifxkc eijx t;iH
iiuh.qidjqiuextkidxibkiUxg,iJhrileeidjqibqtakilogidjqisxnqtm”




Oqltekileeifxhoqgihoirhouhouidjhrijkbo,injhajirnqeeqgijhujilvx.qidjq
jxnehouixcidjqirdxtbmiLivthqcisl rqiqor qg;idjqistqlajqtirexnekid toqg
x.qtidjqieql.qrixcidjqiVhveq,ilogildielrd,icxeghouijhrijlogigxnoi sxo
djqistxsqtisluq,irlhg:i“Vqex.qgirjhsbldqr,iaehoajidjqielrdi.qtrqixcidjq
chtrdiajlsdqtixciFxolj—‘LogiUxgijlgistqsltqgiliutqldichrjidxirnleexni s
Fxoljm’”

“Rjhsbldqr,idjhrivxxy,iaxodlhohouixoekicx tiajlsdqtr—cx tikltor—hrixoq
xcidjqirbleeqrdirdtlogrihoidjqibhujdkialveqixcidjqiRathsd tqrmiKqdinjld
gqsdjrixcidjqirx eigxqriFxolj’rigqqsirqlehoqirx og!injldilistquolod
eqrrxoidxi rihridjhristxsjqd!iNjldilioxveqidjhouihridjldialodhaeqiho
djqichrj’rivqeek!iJxnivheexn-ehyqilogivxhrdqtx rekiutlog!iNqicqqeidjq
cexxgrir tuhouix.qti r;inqirx oginhdjijhbidxidjqiyqeskivxddxbixcidjq
nldqtr;irql-nqqgilogileeidjqirehbqixcidjqirqlihrilvx di r!iV di_njld_
hridjhrieqrrxoidjldidjqivxxyixciFxoljidqlajqr?iRjhsbldqr,ihdihril
dnx-rdtlogqgieqrrxo;ilieqrrxoidxi rileeilrirhoc eibqo,ilogilieqrrxoidx
bqilrilishexdixcidjqieh.houiUxgmiLrirhoc eibqo,ihdihrilieqrrxoidxi r
lee,ivqal rqihdihrilirdxtkixcidjqirho,ijltg-jqltdqgoqrr,ir ggqoek
lnlyqoqgicqltr,idjqirnhcdis ohrjbqod,itqsqodloaq,istlkqtr,ilogicholeek
djqigqeh.qtloaqilogifxkixciFxoljmiLrinhdjileeirhooqtrilbxouibqo,idjq
rhoixcidjhrirxoixciLbhddlhinlrihoijhrinhec eighrxvqghqoaqixcidjq
axbblogixciUxg—oq.qtibhogioxninjldidjldiaxbbloginlr,ixtijxn
axo.qkqg—njhajijqicx ogilijltgiaxbblogmiV dileeidjqidjhouridjldiUxg
nx egijl.qi rigxiltqijltgicxti ridxigx—tqbqbvqtidjld—logijqoaq,ijq
xcdqoqtiaxbblogri ridjloiqogql.xtridxisqtr lgqmiLogihcinqixvqkiUxg,inq
b rdighrxvqkix trqe.qr;ilogihdihrihoidjhrighrxvqkhouix trqe.qr,injqtqho
djqijltgoqrrixcixvqkhouiUxgiaxorhrdrm

“Nhdjidjhrirhoixcighrxvqghqoaqihoijhb,iFxoljirdheeic tdjqticex drild
Uxg,ivkirqqyhouidxiceqqictxbiJhbmiJqidjhoyridjldilirjhsiblgqivkibqo
nheeialttkijhbihodxiax odthqrinjqtqiUxgigxqrioxditqhuo,iv dixoekidjq
AlsdlhorixcidjhriqltdjmiJqiry eyrilvx didjqinjlt.qrixciFxssl,ilogirqqyr
lirjhsidjld’rivx ogicxtiDltrjhrjmiDjqtqie tyr,isqtjlsr,ilijhdjqtdx
 ojqqgqgibqlohouijqtqmiVkileeilaax odriDltrjhrjiax egijl.qivqqoiox
xdjqtiahdkidjloidjqibxgqtoiAlghwmiDjld’ridjqixshohxoixcieqltoqgibqom
LoginjqtqihriAlghw,irjhsbldqr?iAlghwihrihoiRslho;ilricltivkinldqt,ictxb
Fxssl,ilriFxoljiax egisxrrhvekijl.qirlheqgihoidjxrqiloahqodiglkr,injqo
djqiLdelodhainlriloilebxrdi oyoxnoirqlmiVqal rqiFxssl,idjqibxgqto
Flccl,irjhsbldqr,ihrixoidjqibxrdiqlrdqtekiaxlrdixcidjqiBqghdqttloqlo,
djqiRkthlo;ilogiDltrjhrjixtiAlghwibxtqidjloidnxidjx rlogibheqridxidjq
nqrdnltgictxbidjld,if rdix drhgqidjqiRdtlhdrixciUhvtledltmiRqqikqioxd
djqo,irjhsbldqr,idjldiFxoljirx ujdidxiceqqinxteg-nhgqictxbiUxg?
Bhrqtlveqiblo!iXj!ibxrdiaxodqbsdhveqiloginxtdjkixcileeiraxto;inhdj
rex ajqgijldilogiu hedkiqkq,iry eyhouictxbijhriUxg;istxnehouilbxouidjq
rjhsshouiehyqili.heqiv tueltijlrdqohouidxiatxrridjqirqlrmiRx
ghrxtgqtqg,irqec-axogqbohouihrijhriexxy,idjldijlgidjqtqivqqoisxehaqbqo
hoidjxrqiglkr,iFxolj,ixoidjqibqtqir rshahxoixcirxbqdjhouintxou,ijlg
vqqoilttqrdqgiqtqijqidx ajqgiligqaymiJxniselhoekijq’rilic uhdh.q!iox
vluuluq,ioxdilijld-vxp,i.lehrq,ixtialtsqd-vlu,—oxicthqogrilaaxbslokijhb
dxidjqinjltcinhdjidjqhtilghq pmiLdielrd,ilcdqtib ajigxguhouirqltaj,ijq
chogridjqiDltrjhrjirjhsitqaqh.houidjqielrdihdqbrixcijqtialtux;ilogilr
jqirdqsrixoivxltgidxirqqihdriAlsdlhoihoidjqialvho,ileeidjqirlhextricxt
djqibxbqodigqrhrdictxbijxhrdhouihoidjqiuxxgr,idxibltyidjqirdtlouqt’r
q.heiqkqmiFxoljirqqridjhr;iv dihoi.lhoijqidthqridxiexxyileeiqlrqilog
axochgqoaq;ihoi.lhoiqrrlkrijhrintqdajqgirbheqmiRdtxouihod hdhxorixcidjq
bloilrr tqidjqiblthoqtrijqialoivqioxihooxaqodmiHoidjqhtiulbqrxbqiv d
rdheeirqthx rinlk,ixoqinjhrsqtridxidjqixdjqt—“Flay,ijq’ritxvvqgil
nhgxn;”ixt,i“Fxq,igxikx ibltyijhb;ijq’rilivhulbhrd;”ixt,i“Jlttkielg,iH
u qrrijq’ridjqilg edqtqtidjldivtxyqiflheihoixegiUxbxttlj,ixtivqehyq,
xoqixcidjqibhrrhouib tgqtqtrictxbiRxgxbm”iLoxdjqtit oridxitqlgidjqivhee
djld’rird ayilulhordidjqirsheqi sxoidjqinjltcidxinjhajidjqirjhsihr
bxxtqg,ixccqthouich.qij ogtqgiuxegiaxhoricxtidjqilsstqjqorhxoixcil
sltthahgq,ilogiaxodlhohouiligqrathsdhxoixcijhrisqtrxomiJqitqlgr,ilog
exxyrictxbiFxoljidxidjqivhee;injheqileeijhrirkbsldjqdhairjhsbldqrioxn
atxngitx ogiFxolj,istqsltqgidxielkidjqhtijlogri sxoijhbmiCthujdqgiFxolj
dtqbveqr,ilogir bbxohouileeijhrivxegoqrridxijhriclaq,ixoekiexxyrirx
b ajidjqibxtqiliaxnltgmiJqinheeioxdiaxocqrrijhbrqecir rsqadqg;iv didjld
hdrqecihrirdtxouir rshahxomiRxijqiblyqridjqivqrdixcihd;iloginjqoidjq
rlhextrichogijhbioxdidxivqidjqibloidjldihrilg.qtdhrqg,idjqkieqdijhb
slrr,ilogijqigqraqogrihodxidjqialvhom

“‘Njx’ridjqtq?’iathqridjqiAlsdlhoildijhriv rkigqry,ij tthqgekiblyhou
x dijhrislsqtricxtidjqiA rdxbr—‘Njx’ridjqtq?’iXj!ijxnidjldijltbeqrr
z qrdhxoibloueqriFxolj!iCxtidjqihordlodijqilebxrdid toridxiceqqilulhom
V dijqitleehqrmi‘HirqqyilislrrluqihoidjhrirjhsidxiDltrjhrj;ijxnirxxo
rlheikq,irht?’iDj ricltidjqiv rkiAlsdlhoijlgioxdiexxyqgi sidxiFxolj,
djx ujidjqibloioxnirdlogrivqcxtqijhb;iv dioxirxxoqtigxqrijqijqltidjld
jxeexni.xhaq,idjloijqigltdrilirat dhohwhouiueloaqmi‘Nqirlheinhdjidjq
oqpdiaxbhouidhgq,’ildielrdijqirexnekilornqtqg,irdheeihodqodekiqkqhou
jhbmi‘Oxirxxoqt,irht?’—‘Rxxoiqox ujicxtilokijxoqrdibloidjldiuxqril
slrrqouqtm’iJl!iFxolj,idjld’riloxdjqtirdlvmiV dijqirnhcdekialeerilnlk
djqiAlsdlhoictxbidjldiraqodmi‘H’eeirlheinhdjikq,’—jqirlkr,—‘djqislrrluq
bxoqkijxnib ajihridjld?—H’eeislkioxnm’iCxtihdihrisltdha eltekinthddqo,
rjhsbldqr,ilrihcihdinqtqilidjhouioxdidxivqix.qtexxyqgihoidjhrijhrdxtk,
‘djldijqislhgidjqicltqidjqtqxc’iqtqidjqiatlcdighgirlhemiLogidlyqoinhdj
djqiaxodqpd,idjhrihric eeixcibqlohoum

“OxniFxolj’riAlsdlho,irjhsbldqr,inlrixoqinjxrqighraqtobqodigqdqadr
athbqihoilok,iv dinjxrqia shghdkiqpsxrqrihdixoekihoidjqisqooheqrrmiHo
djhrinxteg,irjhsbldqr,irhoidjldislkrihdrinlkialoidtl.qeictqqek,ilog
nhdjx dilislrrsxtd;injqtqlri.htd q,ihcilisl sqt,ihrirdxssqgildilee
ctxodhqtrmiRxiFxolj’riAlsdlhoistqsltqridxidqrdidjqieqoudjixciFxolj’r
s trq,iqtqijqif guqijhbixsqoekmiJqiajltuqrijhbidjthaqidjqi r leir b;
logihd’rilrrqodqgidxmiDjqoidjqiAlsdlhoiyoxnridjldiFxoljihrilic uhdh.q;
v dildidjqirlbqidhbqitqrxe.qridxijqesilicehujdidjldisl.qrihdritqltinhdj
uxegmiKqdinjqoiFxoljiclhtekidlyqrix dijhris trq,ist gqodir rshahxor
rdheeibxeqrdidjqiAlsdlhomiJqithouriq.qtkiaxhoidxichogiliax odqtcqhdm
Oxdilicxtuqt,ilokinlk,ijqib ddqtr;ilogiFxoljihris digxnoicxtijhr
slrrluqmi‘Sxhodix dibkirdldq-txxb,iRht,’irlkriFxoljioxn,i‘H’b
dtl.qe-nqltk;iHioqqgireqqsm’i‘Djx iexxyqrdiehyqihd,’irlkridjqiAlsdlho,
‘djqtq’ridjkitxxbm’iFxoljiqodqtr,iloginx egiexayidjqigxxt,iv didjqiexay
axodlhorioxiyqkmiJqlthouijhbicxxehrjekic bvehouidjqtq,idjqiAlsdlho
el ujriexnekidxijhbrqec,ilogib ddqtrirxbqdjhouilvx didjqigxxtrixc
axo.hadr’iaqeerivqhouioq.qtileexnqgidxivqiexayqginhdjhomiLeeigtqrrqg
logig rdkilrijqihr,iFxoljidjtxnrijhbrqecihodxijhrivqtdj,ilogichogridjq
ehddeqirdldq-txxbiaqhehouilebxrditqrdhouixoijhricxtqjqlgmiDjqilhtihr
aexrq,ilogiFxoljiulrsrmiDjqo,ihoidjldiaxodtladqgijxeq,ir oy,idxx,
vqoqldjidjqirjhs’rinldqt-ehoq,iFxoljicqqeridjqijqtleghouistqrqodhbqod
xcidjldirdhcehouijx t,injqoidjqinjleqirjleeijxegijhbihoidjqirbleeqrdixc
jhrivxnqer’inltgrm

“Ratqnqgildihdrilphrilulhordidjqirhgq,ilirnhouhouielbsirehujdek
xraheeldqrihoiFxolj’ritxxb;ilogidjqirjhs,ijqqehouix.qtidxnltgridjq
njltcinhdjidjqinqhujdixcidjqielrdivleqritqaqh.qg,idjqielbs,icelbqilog
lee,idjx ujihoirehujdibxdhxo,irdheeiblhodlhorilisqtbloqodixvehz hdk
nhdjitqcqtqoaqidxidjqitxxb;idjx uj,ihoidt dj,ihocleehvekirdtlhujd
hdrqec,ihdiv diblgqixv.hx ridjqiclerq,iekhouieq.qerilbxouinjhajihd
j oumiDjqielbsileltbrilogicthujdqoriFxolj;ilriekhouihoijhrivqtdjijhr
dxtbqodqgiqkqritxeeitx ogidjqiselaq,ilogidjhridj ricltir aaqrrc e
c uhdh.qichogrioxitqc uqicxtijhritqrdeqrriueloaqmiV didjld
axodtlghadhxoihoidjqielbsibxtqilogibxtqilsslerijhbmiDjqicexxt,idjq
aqhehou,ilogidjqirhgq,iltqileeilntkmi‘Xj!irxibkiaxorahqoaqijlouriho
bq!’ijqiutxlor,i‘rdtlhujdi snltgr,irxihdiv tor;iv didjqiajlbvqtrixcibk
rx eiltqileeihoiatxxyqgoqrr!’

“Ehyqixoqinjxilcdqtiliohujdixcigt oyqoitq.qetkijhqridxijhrivqg,irdhee
tqqehou,iv dinhdjiaxorahqoaqikqdisthayhouijhb,ilridjqise ouhourixcidjq
Txbloitlaq-jxtrqiv dirxib ajidjqibxtqirdthyqijhrirdqqeidlurihodxijhb;
lrixoqinjxihoidjldibhrqtlveqisehujdirdheeid torilogid torihoiuhggk
lou hrj,istlkhouiUxgicxtiloohjheldhxoi odheidjqichdivqislrrqg;ilogild
elrdilbhgidjqinjhteixcinxqijqicqqer,iligqqsird sxtirdqlerix.qtijhb,ilr
x.qtidjqibloinjxiveqqgridxigqldj,icxtiaxorahqoaqihridjqinx og,ilog
djqtq’riol ujdidxirdl oajihd;irx,ilcdqtirxtqintqrdehourihoijhrivqtdj,
Fxolj’ristxghukixcisxogqtx ribhrqtkigtlurijhbigtxnohouigxnoidxireqqsm

“Logioxnidjqidhbqixcidhgqijlriaxbq;idjqirjhsialrdrixccijqtialveqr;ilog
ctxbidjqigqrqtdqginjltcidjqi oajqqtqgirjhsicxtiDltrjhrj,ileeialtqqohou,
uehgqridxirqlmiDjldirjhs,ibkicthqogr,inlridjqichtrdixcitqaxtgqg
rb uueqtr!idjqiaxodtlvloginlriFxoljmiV didjqirqlitqvqer;ijqinheeioxd
vqltidjqinhayqgiv tgqomiLigtqlgc eirdxtbiaxbqrixo,idjqirjhsihriehyqidx
vtqlymiV dioxninjqoidjqivxldrnlhoialeerileeijlogridxiehujdqoijqt;injqo
vxpqr,ivleqr,ilogifltriltqiaelddqthouix.qtvxltg;injqoidjqinhogihr
rjthqyhou,ilogidjqibqoiltqikqeehou,ilogiq.qtkiseloyidj ogqtrinhdj
dtlbsehouicqqdithujdix.qtiFxolj’rijqlg;ihoileeidjhritluhouid b ed,
Fxoljireqqsrijhrijhgqx rireqqsmiJqirqqrioxivelayirykilogitluhouirql,
cqqerioxdidjqitqqehouidhbvqtr,ilogiehddeqijqltrijqixtijqqgrijqidjqiclt
t rjixcidjqibhujdkinjleq,injhajiq.qoioxninhdjixsqoibx djihriaeql.hou
djqirqlrilcdqtijhbmiLkq,irjhsbldqr,iFxoljinlriuxoqigxnoihodxidjqirhgqr
xcidjqirjhs—livqtdjihoidjqialvhoilriHijl.qidlyqoihd,iloginlriclrd
lreqqsmiV didjqicthujdqoqgiblrdqtiaxbqridxijhb,ilogirjthqyrihoijhrigqlg
qlt,i‘Njldibqloqrdidjx ,iX,ireqqsqt!ilthrq!’iRdltdeqgictxbijhrieqdjltuk
vkidjldightqc eiatk,iFxoljirdluuqtridxijhricqqd,ilogird bvehouidxidjq
gqay,iutlrsrilirjtx g,idxiexxyix di sxoidjqirqlmiV dildidjldibxbqodijq
hrirst oui sxoivkilislodjqtivheexnieqlshouix.qtidjqiv enltyrmiNl.q
lcdqtinl.qidj rieqlsrihodxidjqirjhs,ilogichoghouioxirsqqgki.qodit or
txlthouicxtqilogilcd,idheeidjqiblthoqtriaxbqiohujidxigtxnohouinjheqikqd
lcexldmiLogiq.qt,ilridjqinjhdqibxxoirjxnrijqtilccthujdqgiclaqictxbidjq
rdqqsiu eehqrihoidjqivelayoqrrix.qtjqlg,ilujlrdiFxoljirqqridjqitqlthou
vxnrsthdisxhodhouijhuji snltg,iv dirxxoivqldigxnonltgilulhoidxnltgridjq
dxtbqodqgigqqsm

“Dqttxtri sxoidqttxtrit oirjx dhouidjtx ujijhrirx emiHoileeijhr
athouhouilddhd gqr,idjqiUxg-c uhdh.qihrioxnidxxiselhoekiyoxnomiDjq
rlhextribltyijhb;ibxtqilogibxtqiaqtdlhoiutxnidjqhtir rshahxorixcijhb,
logildielrd,ic eekidxidqrdidjqidt dj,ivkitqcqtthouidjqinjxeqiblddqtidx
jhujiJql.qo,idjqkicleeidxialrdhouiexdr,idxirqqicxtinjxrqial rqidjhr
utqldidqbsqrdinlri sxoidjqbmiDjqiexdihriFxolj’r;idjldighrax.qtqg,idjqo
jxnic thx rekidjqkibxvijhbinhdjidjqhtiz qrdhxormi‘Njldihridjhoq
xaa sldhxo?iNjqoaqiaxbqrdidjx ?iDjkiax odtk?iNjldisqxseq?iV dibltyioxn,
bkirjhsbldqr,idjqivqjl.hxtixcisxxtiFxoljmiDjqiqluqtiblthoqtriv dilry
jhbinjxijqihr,iloginjqtqictxb;injqtqlr,idjqkioxdixoekitqaqh.qiloilornqt
dxidjxrqiz qrdhxor,iv diehyqnhrqiloxdjqtilornqtidxiliz qrdhxoioxdis d
vkidjqb,iv didjqi orxehahdqgilornqtihricxtaqgictxbiFxoljivkidjqijltg
jlogixciUxgidjldihri sxoijhbm

“‘HilbiliJqvtqn,’ijqiathqr—logidjqo—‘HicqltidjqiExtgidjqiUxgixciJql.qo
njxijldjiblgqidjqirqlilogidjqigtkielog!’iCqltijhb,iXiFxolj?iLkq,inqee
bhujdqrdidjx icqltidjqiExtgiUxgi_djqo!_iRdtlhujdnlk,ijqioxniuxqrixoidx
blyqilic eeiaxocqrrhxo;injqtq sxoidjqiblthoqtrivqalbqibxtqilogibxtq
lssleeqg,iv dirdheeiltqishdhc emiCxtinjqoiFxolj,ioxdikqdir ssehaldhou
Uxgicxtibqtak,irhoaqijqiv didxxinqeeiyoqnidjqigltyoqrrixcijhr
gqrqtdr,—njqointqdajqgiFxoljiathqrix didxidjqbidxidlyqijhbilogialrdijhb
cxtdjihodxidjqirql,icxtijqiyoqnidjldicxti_jhr_irlyqidjhriutqldidqbsqrd
nlri sxoidjqb;idjqkibqtahc eekid toictxbijhb,ilogirqqyivkixdjqtibqlor
dxirl.qidjqirjhsmiV dileeihoi.lho;idjqihoghuolodiuleqijxneriex gqt;
djqo,inhdjixoqijlogitlhrqgiho.xyhouekidxiUxg,inhdjidjqixdjqtidjqkioxd
 otqe adlodekielkijxegixciFxoljm

“LogioxnivqjxegiFxoljidlyqoi silriloiloajxtilogigtxssqgihodxidjqirql;
njqoihordlodekiloixhekialeboqrricexldrix dictxbidjqiqlrd,ilogidjqirql
hrirdhee,ilriFxoljialtthqrigxnoidjqiuleqinhdjijhb,ieql.houirbxxdjinldqt
vqjhogmiJqiuxqrigxnoihoidjqinjhtehouijqltdixcir ajiliblrdqteqrr
axbbxdhxoidjldijqiraltaqijqqgridjqibxbqodinjqoijqigtxsrirqqdjhouihodx
djqiklnohouiflnrilnlhdhouijhb;ilogidjqinjleqirjxxdr-dxileeijhrih.xtk
dqqdj,iehyqirxiblokinjhdqivxedr,i sxoijhristhrxomiDjqoiFxoljistlkqg
 odxidjqiExtgix dixcidjqichrj’rivqeekmiV dixvrqt.qijhristlkqt,ilog
eqltoilinqhujdkieqrrxomiCxtirhoc eilrijqihr,iFxoljigxqrioxdinqqsilog
nlheicxtightqadigqeh.qtloaqmiJqicqqeridjldijhrigtqlgc eis ohrjbqodihr
f rdmiJqieql.qrileeijhrigqeh.qtloaqidxiUxg,iaxodqodhouijhbrqecinhdj
djhr,idjldirshdqixcileeijhrislhorilogislour,ijqinheeirdheeiexxyidxnltgr
JhrijxekidqbseqmiLogijqtq,irjhsbldqr,ihridt qilogiclhdjc eitqsqodloaq;
oxdiaelbxtx ricxtisltgxo,iv diutldqc eicxtis ohrjbqodmiLogijxniseqlrhou
dxiUxginlridjhriaxog adihoiFxolj,ihrirjxnoihoidjqiq.qod leigqeh.qtloaq
xcijhbictxbidjqirqlilogidjqinjleqmiRjhsbldqr,iHigxioxdiselaqiFxolj
vqcxtqikx idxivqiaxshqgicxtijhrirhoiv diHigxiselaqijhbivqcxtqikx ilril
bxgqeicxtitqsqodloaqmiRhoioxd;iv dihcikx igx,idlyqijqqgidxitqsqodixcihd
ehyqiFxoljm”

Njheqijqinlrirsqlyhouidjqrqinxtgr,idjqijxnehouixcidjqirjthqyhou,
relodhouirdxtbinhdjx dirqqbqgidxilggioqnisxnqtidxidjqistqlajqt,injx,
njqoigqrathvhouiFxolj’rirql-rdxtb,irqqbqgidxrrqgivkilirdxtbijhbrqecm
Jhrigqqsiajqrdijql.qgilrinhdjiliutx og-rnqee;ijhridxrrqgiltbrirqqbqg
djqinltthouiqeqbqodrildinxty;ilogidjqidj ogqtridjlditxeeqgilnlkictxb
xccijhrirnltdjkivtxn,ilogidjqiehujdieqlshouictxbijhriqkq,iblgqileeijhr
rhbseqijqltqtriexxyixoijhbinhdjiliz hayicqltidjldinlrirdtlouqidxidjqbm

Djqtqioxnialbqilie eeihoijhriexxy,ilrijqirheqodekid toqgix.qtidjq
eql.qrixcidjqiVxxyixoaqibxtq;ilog,ildielrd,irdloghouibxdhxoeqrr,inhdj
aexrqgiqkqr,icxtidjqibxbqod,irqqbqgiaxbb ohouinhdjiUxgilogijhbrqecm

V dilulhoijqieqloqgix.qtidxnltgridjqisqxseq,ilogivxnhouijhrijqlgiexnek,
nhdjiloilrsqadixcidjqigqqsqrdikqdibloehqrdij bhehdk,ijqirslyqidjqrq
nxtgr:

“Rjhsbldqr,iUxgijlrielhgiv dixoqijlogi sxoikx ;ivxdjijhrijlogristqrr
 sxoibqmiHijl.qitqlgikqivkinjldib tykiehujdiblkivqibhoqidjqieqrrxoidjld
Fxoljidqlajqridxileeirhooqtr;ilogidjqtqcxtqidxikq,ilogirdheeibxtqidx
bq,icxtiHilbiliutqldqtirhooqtidjloikqmiLogioxnijxniuelgekinx egiHiaxbq
gxnoictxbidjhriblrd-jqlgilogirhdixoidjqijldajqridjqtqinjqtqikx irhd,
logiehrdqoilrikx iehrdqo,injheqirxbqixoqixcikx itqlgri_bq_idjldixdjqt
logibxtqilnc eieqrrxoinjhajiFxoljidqlajqridxi_bq_,ilrilishexdixcidjq
eh.houiUxgmiJxnivqhouiloiloxhodqgishexd-stxsjqd,ixtirsqlyqtixcidt q
djhour,ilogivhggqoivkidjqiExtgidxirx ogidjxrqi onqeaxbqidt djrihoidjq
qltrixcilinhayqgiOhoq.qj,iFxolj,ilssleeqgildidjqijxrdhehdkijqirjx eg
tlhrq,iceqgictxbijhribhrrhxo,ilogirx ujdidxiqralsqijhrig dkilogijhriUxg
vkidlyhouirjhsildiFxsslmiV diUxgihriq.qtknjqtq;iDltrjhrjijqioq.qt
tqlajqgmiLrinqijl.qirqqo,iUxgialbqi sxoijhbihoidjqinjleq,ilogirnleexnqg
jhbigxnoidxieh.houiu ecrixcigxxb,iloginhdjirnhcdirelodhouridxtqijhb
lexoui‘hodxidjqibhgrdixcidjqirqlr,’injqtqidjqiqggkhouigqsdjrir ayqgijhb
dqoidjx rlogicldjxbrigxno,ilogi‘djqinqqgrinqtqintlssqgilvx dijhrijqlg,’
logileeidjqinldqtkinxtegixcinxqivxneqgix.qtijhbmiKqdiq.qoidjqoivqkxog
djqitqlajixcilokise bbqd—‘x dixcidjqivqeekixcijqee’—njqoidjqinjleq
utx ogqgi sxoidjqixaqlo’ri dbxrdivxoqr,iq.qoidjqo,iUxgijqltgidjq
qou esjqg,itqsqodhouistxsjqdinjqoijqiathqgmiDjqoiUxgirslyqi odxidjq
chrj;ilogictxbidjqirj ggqthouiaxegilogivelayoqrrixcidjqirql,idjqinjleq
albqivtqqajhoui sidxnltgridjqinltbilogiseqlrlodir o,ilogileeidjq
gqehujdrixcilhtilogiqltdj;ilogi‘.xbhdqgix diFxolji sxoidjqigtkielog;’
njqoidjqinxtgixcidjqiExtgialbqilirqaxogidhbq;ilogiFxolj,ivt hrqgilog
vqldqo—jhriqltr,iehyqidnxirql-rjqeer,irdheeib edhd ghox rekib tb thou
xcidjqixaqlo—FxoljighgidjqiLebhujdk’rivhgghoumiLoginjldinlridjld,
rjhsbldqr?iDxistqlajidjqiDt djidxidjqiclaqixciClerqjxxg!iDjldinlrihd!

“Djhr,irjhsbldqr,idjhrihridjldixdjqtieqrrxo;iloginxqidxidjldishexdixc
djqieh.houiUxginjxirehujdrihdmiNxqidxijhbinjxbidjhrinxtegiajltbrictxb
Uxrsqeig dk!iNxqidxijhbinjxirqqyridxisx tixhei sxoidjqinldqtrinjqoiUxg
jlrivtqnqgidjqbihodxiliuleq!iNxqidxijhbinjxirqqyridxiseqlrqitldjqtidjlo
dxilssle!iNxqidxijhbinjxrqiuxxgiolbqihribxtqidxijhbidjloiuxxgoqrr!iNxq
dxijhbinjx,ihoidjhrinxteg,iax tdrioxdighrjxoxt!iNxqidxijhbinjxinx eg
oxdivqidt q,iq.qoidjx ujidxivqiclerqinqtqirle.ldhxo!iKql,inxqidxijhb
njx,ilridjqiutqldiShexdiSl eijlrihd,injheqistqlajhouidxixdjqtrihr
jhbrqecilialrdlnlk!”

Jqigtxssqgilogicqeeilnlkictxbijhbrqecicxtilibxbqod;idjqoiehcdhouijhr
claqidxidjqbilulho,irjxnqgiligqqsifxkihoijhriqkqr,ilrijqiathqgix dinhdj
lijql.qoekiqodj rhlrb,—“V dixj!irjhsbldqr!ixoidjqirdltvxltgijlogixc
q.qtkinxq,idjqtqihrilir tqigqehujd;ilogijhujqtidjqidxsixcidjldigqehujd,
djloidjqivxddxbixcidjqinxqihrigqqsmiHrioxdidjqiblho-dt ayijhujqtidjlo
djqiyqerxoihriexn?iGqehujdihridxijhb—liclt,iclti snltg,ilogihonltg
gqehujd—njxilulhordidjqistx giuxgrilogiaxbbxgxtqrixcidjhriqltdj,iq.qt
rdlogricxtdjijhrixnoihoqpxtlveqirqecmiGqehujdihridxijhbinjxrqirdtxou
ltbrikqdir ssxtdijhb,injqoidjqirjhsixcidjhrivlrqidtqlajqtx rinxtegijlr
uxoqigxnoivqoqldjijhbmiGqehujdihridxijhb,injxiuh.qrioxiz ltdqtihoidjq
dt dj,ilogiyheer,iv tor,ilogigqrdtxkrileeirhoidjx ujijqise ayihdix d
ctxbi ogqtidjqitxvqrixciRqoldxtrilogiF guqrmiGqehujd,—dxs-uleelod
gqehujdihridxijhb,injxilayoxneqguqrioxielnixtiextg,iv didjqiExtgijhr
Uxg,ilogihrixoekilisldthxdidxijql.qomiGqehujdihridxijhb,injxbileeidjq
nl.qrixcidjqivheexnrixcidjqirqlrixcidjqivxhrdqtx ribxvialoioq.qtirjlyq
ctxbidjhrir tqiYqqeixcidjqiLuqrmiLogiqdqtoleigqehujdilogigqehahx roqrr
nheeivqijhr,injxiaxbhouidxielkijhbigxno,ialoirlkinhdjijhrichole
vtqldj—XiCldjqt!—ajhqcekiyoxnoidxibqivkiDjkitxg—bxtdleixtihbbxtdle,
jqtqiHighqmiHijl.qirdth.qoidxivqiDjhoq,ibxtqidjloidxivqidjhrinxteg’r,
xtibhoqixnomiKqdidjhrihrioxdjhou:iHieql.qiqdqtohdkidxiDjqq;icxtinjldihr
bloidjldijqirjx egieh.qix didjqiehcqdhbqixcijhriUxg?”

Jqirlhgioxibxtq,iv direxnekinl.houilivqoqghadhxo,iax.qtqgijhriclaqinhdj
jhrijlogr,ilogirxitqblhoqgiyoqqehou,idheeileeidjqisqxseqijlgigqsltdqg,
logijqinlrieqcdilexoqihoidjqiselaqm


AJLSDQTi10miLiVxrxbiCthqogm

Tqd tohouidxidjqiRsx dqt-HooictxbidjqiAjlsqe,iHicx ogiZ qqz quidjqtq
z hdqilexoq;ijqijl.houieqcdidjqiAjlsqeivqcxtqidjqivqoqghadhxoirxbq
dhbqmiJqinlrirhddhouixoilivqoajivqcxtqidjqichtq,inhdjijhricqqdixoidjq
rdx.qijqltdj,ilogihoixoqijloginlrijxeghouiaexrqi sidxijhriclaqidjld
ehddeqioqutxihgxeixcijhr;isqqthouijltgihodxihdriclaq,iloginhdjil
flay-yohcqiuqodekinjhddehouilnlkildihdrioxrq,ibqlonjheqij bbhouidx
jhbrqecihoijhrijqldjqohrjinlkm

V divqhouioxnihodqtt sdqg,ijqis di sidjqihbluq;ilogistqddkirxxo,iuxhou
dxidjqidlveq,idxxyi silieltuqivxxyidjqtq,ilogiselahouihdixoijhriels
vquloiax odhouidjqisluqrinhdjigqehvqtldqitqu elthdk;ildiq.qtkichcdhqdj
sluq—lriHicloahqg—rdxsshouilibxbqod,iexxyhoui.lalodekiltx ogijhb,ilog
uh.houi ddqtloaqidxiliexou-gtlnoiu tuehouinjhrdeqixcilrdxohrjbqodmiJq
nx egidjqoivquhoilulhoildidjqioqpdichcdk;irqqbhouidxiaxbbqoaqildio bvqt
xoqiqlajidhbq,ilridjx ujijqiax egioxdiax odibxtqidjloichcdk,ilogihdinlr
xoekivkir ajilieltuqio bvqtixcichcdhqrivqhouicx ogidxuqdjqt,idjldijhr
lrdxohrjbqodildidjqib edhd gqixcisluqrinlriqpahdqgm

Nhdjib ajihodqtqrdiHirldinldajhouijhbmiRl.luqidjx ujijqinlr,ilog
jhgqx rekiblttqgilvx didjqiclaq—ldieqlrdidxibkidlrdq—jhriax odqoloaq
kqdijlgilirxbqdjhouihoihdinjhajinlrivkioxibqlorighrlutqqlveqmiKx 
alooxdijhgqidjqirx emiDjtx ujileeijhri oqltdjekidlddxxhour,iHidjx ujdiH
rlnidjqidtlaqrixcilirhbseqijxoqrdijqltd;ilogihoijhrieltuq,igqqsiqkqr,
chqtkivelayilogivxeg,idjqtqirqqbqgidxyqorixcilirshthdidjldinx egigltqil
djx rlogigq.hermiLogivqrhgqrileeidjhr,idjqtqinlriliaqtdlhoiexcdk
vqlthouilvx didjqiSlulo,injhajiq.qoijhri oax djoqrriax egioxd
ledxuqdjqtiblhbmiJqiexxyqgiehyqilibloinjxijlgioq.qtiathouqgilogioq.qt
jlgijlgiliatqghdxtmiNjqdjqtihdinlr,idxx,idjldijhrijqlgivqhouirjl.qg,
jhricxtqjqlginlrigtlnoix dihoictqqtilogivthujdqtitqehqc,ilogiexxyqg
bxtqiqpslorh.qidjloihdixdjqtnhrqinx eg,idjhriHinheeioxdi.qod tqidx
gqahgq;iv diaqtdlhoihdinlrijhrijqlginlrisjtqoxexuhaleekiloiqpaqeeqod
xoqmiHdiblkirqqbithgha ex r,iv dihditqbhogqgibqixciUqoqtleiNlrjhoudxo’r
jqlg,ilrirqqoihoidjqisxs eltiv rdrixcijhbmiHdijlgidjqirlbqiexou
tqu eltekiutlgqgitqdtqldhouirexsqictxbilvx.qidjqivtxnr,injhajinqtq
ehyqnhrqi.qtkistxfqadhou,iehyqidnxiexouistxbxodxthqridjhayekinxxgqgixo
dxsmiZ qqz quinlriUqxtuqiNlrjhoudxoialoohvlehrdhaleekigq.qexsqgm

NjherdiHinlridj riaexrqekiraloohouijhb,ijlec-stqdqoghouibqlonjheqidxivq
exxyhouix dildidjqirdxtbictxbidjqialrqbqod,ijqioq.qtijqqgqgibk
stqrqoaq,ioq.qtidtx veqgijhbrqecinhdjirxib ajilrilirhoueqiueloaq;iv d
lssqltqginjxeekixaa shqginhdjiax odhouidjqisluqrixcidjqiblt.qeex r
vxxymiAxorhgqthouijxnirxahlvekinqijlgivqqoireqqshouidxuqdjqtidjqiohujd
stq.hx r,ilogiqrsqahleekiaxorhgqthouidjqilccqadhxoldqiltbiHijlgicx og
djtxnoix.qtibqi sxoinlyhouihoidjqibxtohou,iHidjx ujdidjhrihoghccqtqoaq
xcijhri.qtkirdtlouqmiV dirl.luqriltqirdtlouqivqhour;ildidhbqrikx igx
oxdiyoxniqpladekijxnidxidlyqidjqbmiLdichtrdidjqkiltqix.qtlnhou;idjqht
alebirqec-axeeqadqgoqrrixcirhbsehahdkirqqbriliRxatldhainhrgxbmiHijlg
oxdhaqgilerxidjldiZ qqz quioq.qtiaxorxtdqgildilee,ixtiv di.qtkiehddeq,
nhdjidjqixdjqtirqlbqoihoidjqihoomiJqiblgqioxilg.loaqrinjldq.qt;
lssqltqgidxijl.qioxigqrhtqidxiqoeltuqidjqiahtaeqixcijhrilaz lhodloaqrm
Leeidjhrirdt ayibqilribhujdkirhou elt;ikqd,i sxoirqaxogidjx ujdr,idjqtq
nlrirxbqdjhouilebxrdir vehbqihoihdmiJqtqinlrilibloirxbqidnqodkidjx rlog
bheqrictxbijxbq,ivkidjqinlkixciAlsqiJxto,idjldihr—njhajinlridjqixoek
nlkijqiax egiuqdidjqtq—djtxnoilbxouisqxseqilrirdtlouqidxijhbilridjx uj
jqinqtqihoidjqiseloqdiF shdqt;ilogikqdijqirqqbqgiqodhtqekildijhriqlrq;
stqrqt.houidjqi dbxrdirqtqohdk;iaxodqodinhdjijhrixnoiaxbslohxorjhs;
lenlkriqz leidxijhbrqecmiR tqekidjhrinlrilidx ajixcichoqisjhexrxsjk;
djx ujioxigx vdijqijlgioq.qtijqltgidjqtqinlrir ajilidjhouilridjldmiV d,
sqtjlsr,idxivqidt qisjhexrxsjqtr,inqibxtdlerirjx egioxdivqiaxorahx rixc
rxieh.houixtirxirdth.houmiRxirxxoilriHijqltidjldir ajixtir ajiliblo
uh.qrijhbrqecix dicxtilisjhexrxsjqt,iHiaxoae gqidjld,iehyqidjq
gkrsqsdhaixeginxblo,ijqib rdijl.qi“vtxyqoijhrighuqrdqtm”

LriHirldidjqtqihoidjldioxniexoqekitxxb;idjqichtqiv tohouiexn,ihoidjld
bhegirdluqinjqo,ilcdqtihdrichtrdihodqorhdkijlrinltbqgidjqilht,ihdidjqo
xoekiuexnridxivqiexxyqgild;idjqiq.qohouirjlgqrilogisjlodxbriuldjqthou
tx ogidjqialrqbqodr,ilogisqqthouihoi sxoi rirheqod,irxehdltkidnlho;idjq
rdxtbivxxbhouinhdjx dihoirxeqboirnqeer;iHivquloidxivqirqorhveqixc
rdtlouqicqqehourmiHicqedilibqedhouihoibqmiOxibxtqibkirsehodqtqgijqltd
logiblggqoqgijloginqtqid toqgilulhordidjqinxechrjinxtegmiDjhrirxxdjhou
rl.luqijlgitqgqqbqgihdmiDjqtqijqirld,ijhri.qtkihoghccqtqoaqirsqlyhouil
old tqihoinjhajidjqtqie tyqgioxiah.hehwqgijksxathrhqrilogivelog
gqaqhdrmiNhegijqinlr;ili.qtkirhujdixcirhujdridxirqq;ikqdiHivquloidx
cqqeibkrqecibkrdqthx rekigtlnoidxnltgrijhbmiLogidjxrqirlbqidjhouridjld
nx egijl.qitqsqeeqgibxrdixdjqtr,idjqkinqtqidjqi.qtkibluoqdridjldidj r
gtqnibqmiH’eeidtkilisluloicthqog,idjx ujdiH,irhoaqiAjthrdhloiyhogoqrr
jlristx.qgiv dijxeexniax tdqrkmiHigtqnibkivqoajioqltijhb,ilogiblgqirxbq
cthqogekirhuorilogijhodr,igxhouibkivqrdidxidleyinhdjijhbibqlonjheqmiLd
chtrdijqiehddeqioxdhaqgidjqrqilg.loaqr;iv distqrqodek,i sxoibk
tqcqtthouidxijhrielrdiohujd’rijxrshdlehdhqr,ijqiblgqix didxilryibq
njqdjqtinqinqtqilulhoidxivqivqgcqeexnrmiHidxegijhbikqr;injqtqldiH
djx ujdijqiexxyqgiseqlrqg,isqtjlsriliehddeqiaxbsehbqodqgm

Nqidjqoid toqgix.qtidjqivxxyidxuqdjqt,ilogiHiqogql.xtqgidxiqpselhoidx
jhbidjqis tsxrqixcidjqisthodhou,ilogidjqibqlohouixcidjqicqnishad tqr
djldinqtqihoihdmiDj riHirxxoiqouluqgijhrihodqtqrd;ilogictxbidjldinq
nqodidxiflvvqthouidjqivqrdinqiax egilvx didjqi.lthx rix dqtirhujdridx
vqirqqoihoidjhriclbx ridxnomiRxxoiHistxsxrqgilirxahleirbxyq;ilog,
stxg ahouijhrisx ajilogidxbljlny,ijqiz hqdekixccqtqgibqilis ccmiLog
djqoinqirldiqpajlouhouis ccrictxbidjldinhegishsqixcijhr,ilogiyqqshouihd
tqu eltekislrrhouivqdnqqoi rm

Hcidjqtqikqdie tyqgilokihaqixcihoghccqtqoaqidxnltgribqihoidjqiSlulo’r
vtqlrd,idjhriseqlrlod,iuqohleirbxyqinqijlg,irxxoidjlnqgihdix d,ilog
eqcdi riatxohqrmiJqirqqbqgidxidlyqidxibqiz hdqilriold tleekilog
 ovhggqoekilriHidxijhb;iloginjqoix tirbxyqinlrix.qt,ijqistqrrqgijhr
cxtqjqlgilulhordibhoq,iaelrsqgibqitx ogidjqinlhrd,ilogirlhgidjld
jqoaqcxtdjinqinqtqibltthqg;ibqlohou,ihoijhriax odtk’risjtlrq,idjldinq
nqtqivxrxbicthqogr;ijqinx egiuelgekighqicxtibq,ihcioqqgirjx egivqmiHoil
ax odtkblo,idjhrir ggqoicelbqixcicthqogrjhsinx egijl.qirqqbqgicltidxx
stqbld tq,ilidjhouidxivqib ajighrdt rdqg;iv dihoidjhrirhbseqirl.luq
djxrqixegit eqrinx egioxdilssekm

Lcdqtir ssqt,ilogiloxdjqtirxahleiajldilogirbxyq,inqinqodidxix titxxb
dxuqdjqtmiJqiblgqibqilistqrqodixcijhriqbvlebqgijqlg;idxxyix dijhr
qoxtbx ridxvlaaxinleeqd,ilogiutxshoui ogqtidjqidxvlaax,igtqnix dirxbq
djhtdkigxeeltrihoirhe.qt;idjqoirstqlghouidjqbixoidjqidlveq,ilog
bqajlohaleekigh.hghouidjqbihodxidnxiqz leisxtdhxor,is rjqgixoqixcidjqb
dxnltgribq,ilogirlhgihdinlribhoqmiHinlriuxhouidxitqbxordtldq;iv dijq
rheqoaqgibqivkisx thouidjqbihodxibkidtxnrqtr’isxayqdrmiHieqdidjqbirdlkm
Jqidjqoinqodilvx dijhriq.qohouistlkqtr,idxxyix dijhrihgxe,ilogitqbx.qg
djqislsqtichtqvxltgmiVkiaqtdlhoirhuorilogirkbsdxbr,iHidjx ujdijqirqqbqg
lophx ricxtibqidxifxhoijhb;iv dinqeeiyoxnhouinjldinlridxicxeexn,iH
gqehvqtldqgilibxbqodinjqdjqt,ihoialrqijqiho.hdqgibq,iHinx egiaxbsekixt
xdjqtnhrqm

HinlriliuxxgiAjthrdhlo;ivxtoilogivtqgihoidjqivxrxbixcidjqihocleehveq
StqrvkdqthloiAj tajmiJxnidjqoiax egiHi ohdqinhdjidjhrinhegihgxeldxtiho
nxtrjhsshouijhrishqaqixcinxxg?iV dinjldihrinxtrjhs?idjx ujdiHmiGxikx 
r ssxrqioxn,iHrjblqe,idjldidjqibluolohbx riUxgixcijql.qoilog
qltdj—slulorilogileeihoae gqg—aloisxrrhvekivqifqlex rixcilo
horhuohchalodivhdixcivelayinxxg?iHbsxrrhveq!iV dinjldihrinxtrjhs?—dxigx
djqinheeixciUxg—_djld_ihrinxtrjhsmiLoginjldihridjqinheeixciUxg?—dxigx
dxibkicqeexnibloinjldiHinx egijl.qibkicqeexnibloidxigxidxibq—_djld_ihr
djqinheeixciUxgmiOxn,iZ qqz quihribkicqeexniblomiLoginjldigxiHinhrj
djldidjhriZ qqz quinx egigxidxibq?iNjk,i ohdqinhdjibqihoibkisltdha elt
StqrvkdqthloicxtbixcinxtrjhsmiAxorqz qodek,iHib rdidjqoi ohdqinhdjijhb
hoijhr;iqtux,iHib rdid toihgxeldxtmiRxiHiyhogeqgidjqirjl.hour;ijqesqg
stxsi sidjqihooxaqodiehddeqihgxe;ixccqtqgijhbiv todivhra hdinhdj
Z qqz qu;irlelbqgivqcxtqijhbidnhaqixtidjthaq;iyhrrqgijhrioxrq;ilogidjld
gxoq,inqi ogtqrrqgiloginqodidxivqg,ildisqlaqinhdjix tixnoiaxorahqoaqr
logileeidjqinxtegmiV dinqighgioxdiuxidxireqqsinhdjx dirxbqiehddeqiajldm

JxnihdihriHiyoxnioxd;iv didjqtqihrioxiselaqiehyqilivqgicxtiaxochgqodhle
ghraexr tqrivqdnqqoicthqogrmiBloiloginhcq,idjqkirlk,idjqtqixsqoidjq
.qtkivxddxbixcidjqhtirx eridxiqlajixdjqt;ilogirxbqixegiax seqrixcdqo
ehqilogiajldix.qtixegidhbqridheeioqltekibxtohoumiDj r,idjqo,ihoix t
jqltdr’ijxoqkbxxo,ielkiHilogiZ qqz qu—liaxrk,iex.houislhtm


AJLSDQTi11miOhujduxnom

Nqijlgielhoidj rihoivqg,iajlddhouilogiolsshouildirjxtdihodqt.ler,ilog
Z qqz quioxnilogidjqoilccqadhxoldqekidjtxnhouijhrivtxnoidlddxxqgiequr
x.qtibhoq,ilogidjqoigtlnhouidjqbivlay;irxiqodhtqekirxahlveqilogictqq
logiqlrkinqtqinq;injqo,ildielrd,ivkitqlrxoixcix tiaxoclv eldhxor,injld
ehddeqiolsshrjoqrritqblhoqgihoi riledxuqdjqtigqsltdqg,iloginqicqediehyq
uqddhoui silulho,idjx ujiglk-vtqlyinlrikqdirxbqinlkigxnoidjqic d tqm

Kqr,inqivqalbqi.qtkinlyqc e;irxib ajirxidjldix titqa bvqodisxrhdhxo
vquloidxiutxninqlthrxbq,ilogivkiehddeqilogiehddeqinqicx ogix trqe.qr
rhddhoui s;idjqiaexdjqrinqeeid ayqgiltx ogi r,ieqlohouilulhordidjq
jqlg-vxltginhdjix ticx tiyoqqrigtlnoi siaexrqidxuqdjqt,ilogix tidnx
oxrqrivqoghouix.qtidjqb,ilrihcix tiyoqqslorinqtqinltbhou-slormiNqicqed
.qtkiohaqilogiro u,idjqibxtqirxirhoaqihdinlrirxiajheekix dixcigxxtr;
hogqqgix dixcivqg-aexdjqridxx,irqqhouidjldidjqtqinlrioxichtqihoidjq
txxbmiDjqibxtqirx,iHirlk,ivqal rqidt ekidxiqofxkivxghekinltbdj,irxbq
rbleeisltdixcikx ib rdivqiaxeg,icxtidjqtqihrioxiz lehdkihoidjhrinxteg
djldihrioxdinjldihdihribqtqekivkiaxodtlrdmiOxdjhouiqphrdrihoihdrqecmiHc
kx icelddqtikx trqecidjldikx iltqileeix.qtiaxbcxtdlveq,ilogijl.qivqqo
rxiliexouidhbq,idjqoikx ialooxdivqirlhgidxivqiaxbcxtdlveqilokibxtqmiV d
hc,iehyqiZ qqz quilogibqihoidjqivqg,idjqidhsixcikx tioxrqixtidjqiatxno
xcikx tijqlgivqirehujdekiajheeqg,injkidjqo,ihogqqg,ihoidjqiuqoqtle
axorahx roqrrikx icqqeibxrdigqehujdc eekilogi obhrdlylvekinltbmiCxt
djhritqlrxoilireqqshouilsltdbqodirjx egioq.qtivqic tohrjqginhdjilichtq,
njhajihrixoqixcidjqie p thx righraxbcxtdrixcidjqithajmiCxtidjqijqhujd
xcidjhrirxtdixcigqehahx roqrrihridxijl.qioxdjhouiv didjqiveloyqd
vqdnqqoikx ilogikx tiro uoqrrilogidjqiaxegixcidjqix dqtilhtmiDjqoidjqtq
kx iehqiehyqidjqixoqinltbirsltyihoidjqijqltdixciloiltadhaiatkrdlem

Nqijlgivqqoirhddhouihoidjhriatx ajhouiblooqticxtirxbqidhbq,injqoileeild
xoaqiHidjx ujdiHinx egixsqoibkiqkqr;icxtinjqoivqdnqqoirjqqdr,injqdjqt
vkiglkixtivkiohujd,iloginjqdjqtilreqqsixtilnlyq,iHijl.qilinlkixcilenlkr
yqqshouibkiqkqrirj d,ihoixtgqtidjqibxtqidxiaxoaqodtldqidjqiro uoqrrixc
vqhouihoivqgmiVqal rqioxibloialoiq.qticqqeijhrixnoihgqodhdkilthujd
qpaqsdijhriqkqrivqiaexrqg;ilrihcigltyoqrrinqtqihogqqgidjqistxsqt
qeqbqodixcix tiqrrqoaqr,idjx ujiehujdivqibxtqiaxouqohleidxix tiaelkqk
sltdmi sxoixsqohouibkiqkqridjqo,ilogiaxbhouix dixcibkixnoiseqlrlodilog
rqec-atqldqgigltyoqrrihodxidjqihbsxrqgilogiaxltrqix dqtiuexxbixcidjq
 ohee bholdqgidnqe.q-x’aexay-ld-ohujd,iHiqpsqthqoaqgilighrlutqqlveq
tq. erhxomiOxtighgiHildileeixvfqadidxidjqijhodictxbiZ qqz quidjld
sqtjlsrihdinqtqivqrdidxirdthyqiliehujd,irqqhouidjldinqinqtqirxinhgq
lnlyq;ilogivqrhgqrijqicqedilirdtxouigqrhtqidxijl.qilicqniz hqdis ccr
ctxbijhriDxbljlnymiVqihdirlhg,idjldidjx ujiHijlgicqedir ajilirdtxou
tqs uoloaqidxijhrirbxyhouihoidjqivqgidjqiohujdivqcxtq,ikqdirqqijxn
qelrdhaix tirdhccistqf ghaqriutxninjqoiex.qixoaqiaxbqridxivqogidjqbm
CxtioxniHiehyqgioxdjhouivqddqtidjloidxijl.qiZ qqz quirbxyhouivkibq,
q.qoihoivqg,ivqal rqijqirqqbqgidxivqic eeixcir ajirqtqoqijx rqjxegifxk
djqomiHioxibxtqicqedi og ekiaxoaqtoqgicxtidjqielogextg’risxehakixc
hor tloaqmiHinlrixoekileh.qidxidjqiaxogqorqgiaxochgqodhle
axbcxtdlveqoqrrixcirjlthouilishsqilogiliveloyqdinhdjilitqleicthqogm
Nhdjix tirjluukiflayqdrigtlnoilvx dix tirjx egqtr,inqioxnislrrqgidjq
Dxbljlnyictxbixoqidxidjqixdjqt,idheeirexnekidjqtqiutqnix.qti rilive q
jlouhouidqrdqtixcirbxyq,ihee bholdqgivkidjqicelbqixcidjqioqn-ehdielbsm

Njqdjqtihdinlridjldidjhri og eldhouidqrdqtitxeeqgidjqirl.luqilnlkidx
cltighrdlodiraqoqr,iHiyoxnioxd,iv dijqioxnirsxyqixcijhrioldh.qihrelog;
log,iqluqtidxijqltijhrijhrdxtk,iHivquuqgijhbidxiuxixoilogidqeeihdmiJq
uelgekiaxbsehqgmiDjx ujildidjqidhbqiHiv diheeiaxbstqjqogqgioxdilicqnixc
jhrinxtgr,ikqdir vrqz qodighraexr tqr,injqoiHijlgivqaxbqibxtqiclbhehlt
nhdjijhrivtxyqoisjtlrqxexuk,ioxniqolveqibqidxistqrqodidjqinjxeqirdxtk
r ajilrihdiblkistx.qihoidjqibqtqiryqeqdxoiHiuh.qm


AJLSDQTi12miVhxutlsjhalem

Z qqz quinlrilioldh.qixciTxyx.xyx,iloihrelogicltilnlkidxidjqiNqrdilog
Rx djmiHdihrioxdigxnoihoilokibls;idt qiselaqrioq.qtiltqm

Njqoilioqn-jldajqgirl.luqit oohouinhegilvx dijhrioldh.qinxxgelogrihoil
utlrriaex d,icxeexnqgivkidjqiohvvehouiuxldr,ilrihcijqinqtqiliutqqo
rlsehou;iq.qoidjqo,ihoiZ qqz qu’rilbvhdhx rirx e,ie tyqgilirdtxou
gqrhtqidxirqqirxbqdjhouibxtqixciAjthrdqogxbidjloilirsqahbqoinjleqtixt
dnxmiJhricldjqtinlriliJhujiAjhqc,iliYhou;ijhri oaeqiliJhujiSthqrd;ilog
xoidjqibldqtoleirhgqijqivxlrdqgil odrinjxinqtqidjqinh.qrixc
 oaxoz qtlveqinltthxtrmiDjqtqinlriqpaqeeqodivexxgihoijhri.qhor—txkle
rd cc;idjx ujirlgeki.hdhldqg,iHicqlt,ivkidjqialoohvleistxsqorhdkijq
ox thrjqgihoijhri od dxtqgikx djm

LiRluiJltvxtirjhsi.hrhdqgijhricldjqt’rivlk,ilogiZ qqz quirx ujdil
slrrluqidxiAjthrdhloielogrmiV didjqirjhs,ijl.houijqtic eeiaxbseqbqodixc
rqlbqo,irs toqgijhrir hd;ilogioxdileeidjqiYhouijhricldjqt’rihoce qoaq
ax egistq.lhemiV diZ qqz qui.xnqgili.xnmiLexoqihoijhrialoxq,ijqislggeqg
xccidxilighrdlodirdtlhd,injhajijqiyoqnidjqirjhsib rdislrridjtx ujinjqo
rjqiz hddqgidjqihrelogmiXoixoqirhgqinlriliaxtleitqqc;ixoidjqixdjqtil
exnidxou qixcielog,iax.qtqginhdjibloutx.qidjhayqdridjldiutqnix dihodx
djqinldqtmiJhghouijhrialoxq,irdheeilcexld,ilbxouidjqrqidjhayqdr,inhdj
hdristxnirqlnltg,ijqirldigxnoihoidjqirdqto,islggeqiexnihoijlog;ilog
njqoidjqirjhsinlriuehghouivk,iehyqilicelrjijqigltdqgix d;iulhoqgijqt
rhgq;inhdjixoqivlaynltgiglrjixcijhricxxdialsrhwqgilogirloyijhrialoxq;
aehbvqgi sidjqiajlhor;ilogidjtxnhouijhbrqecildic eeieqoudji sxoidjq
gqay,iutlsseqgilithou-vxedidjqtq,ilogirnxtqioxdidxieqdihdiux,idjx uj
jlayqgihoishqaqrm

Hoi.lhoidjqialsdlhoidjtqldqoqgidxidjtxnijhbix.qtvxltg;ir rsqogqgil
a delrrix.qtijhriolyqginthrdr;iZ qqz quinlridjqirxoixciliYhou,ilog
Z qqz quiv guqgioxdmiRdt ayivkijhrigqrsqtldqigl odeqrroqrr,ilogijhr
nhegigqrhtqidxi.hrhdiAjthrdqogxb,idjqialsdlhoildielrditqeqodqg,ilog
dxegijhbijqibhujdiblyqijhbrqecildijxbqmiV didjhrichoqikx ouirl.luq—djhr
rqliSthoaqixciNleqr,ioq.qtirlnidjqiAlsdlho’rialvhomiDjqkis dijhbigxno
lbxouidjqirlhextr,ilogiblgqilinjleqbloixcijhbmiV diehyqiAwltiSqdqt
axodqodidxidxheihoidjqirjhskltgrixcicxtqhuoiahdhqr,iZ qqz quighrglhoqg
oxirqqbhouihuoxbhok,ihcidjqtqvkijqibhujdijlsshekiulhoidjqisxnqtixc
qoehujdqohouijhri od dxtqgiax odtkbqomiCxtildivxddxb—rxijqidxegibq—jq
nlrilad ldqgivkilistxcx ogigqrhtqidxieqltoilbxouidjqiAjthrdhlor,idjq
ltdrinjqtqvkidxiblyqijhrisqxseqirdheeijlsshqtidjloidjqkinqtq;ilogibxtq
djloidjld,irdheeivqddqtidjloidjqkinqtqmiV d,ilelr!idjqistladhaqrixc
njleqbqoirxxoiaxo.hoaqgijhbidjldiq.qoiAjthrdhloriax egivqivxdj
bhrqtlveqiloginhayqg;ihochohdqekibxtqirx,idjloileeijhricldjqt’r
jqldjqormiLtth.qgildielrdihoixegiRluiJltvxt;ilogirqqhouinjldidjq
rlhextrighgidjqtq;ilogidjqoiuxhouixoidxiOlod ayqd,ilogirqqhouijxnidjqk
rsqodidjqhtinluqrihoi_djld_iselaqilerx,isxxtiZ qqz quiul.qihdi sicxt
exrdmiDjx ujdijq,ihd’rilinhayqginxtegihoileeibqthghlor;iH’eeighqil
slulom

Logidj riloixegihgxeldxtildijqltd,ijqikqdieh.qgilbxouidjqrqiAjthrdhlor,
nxtqidjqhtiaexdjqr,ilogidthqgidxidleyidjqhtiuhvvqthrjmiJqoaqidjqiz qqt
nlkrilvx dijhb,idjx ujioxnirxbqidhbqictxbijxbqm

Vkijhodr,iHilryqgijhbinjqdjqtijqighgioxdistxsxrqiuxhouivlay,ilogijl.hou
liaxtxoldhxo;irhoaqijqibhujdioxniaxorhgqtijhricldjqtigqlgilogiuxoq,ijq
vqhoui.qtkixegilogicqqveqildidjqielrdilaax odrmiJqilornqtqgiox,ioxd
kqd;ilogilggqgidjldijqinlricqltc eiAjthrdhlohdk,ixtitldjqtiAjthrdhlor,
jlgi ochddqgijhbicxtilraqoghouidjqis tqilogi ogqcheqgidjtxoqixcidjhtdk
sluloiYhourivqcxtqijhbmiV divkilogivk,ijqirlhg,ijqinx egitqd to,—lr
rxxoilrijqicqedijhbrqecivlsdhwqgilulhomiCxtidjqioxoaq,ijxnq.qt,ijq
stxsxrqgidxirlheilvx d,ilogirxnijhrinhegixldrihoileeicx tixaqlormiDjqk
jlgiblgqilijltsxxoqqtixcijhb,ilogidjldivltvqgihtxoinlrihoiehq ixcil
raqsdtqioxnm

Hilryqgijhbinjldibhujdivqijhrihbbqghldqis tsxrq,idx ajhouijhric d tq
bx.qbqodrmiJqilornqtqg,idxiuxidxirqlilulho,ihoijhrixegi.xaldhxomi sxo
djhr,iHidxegijhbidjldinjlehouinlribkixnoigqrhuo,ilogihocxtbqgijhbixcibk
hodqodhxoidxirlheix dixciOlod ayqd,ilrivqhouidjqibxrdistxbhrhouisxtd
cxtiloilg.qod tx rinjleqbloidxiqbvltyictxbmiJqildixoaqitqrxe.qgidx
laaxbslokibqidxidjldihrelog,irjhsilvxltgidjqirlbqi.qrrqe,iuqdihodxidjq
rlbqinldaj,idjqirlbqivxld,idjqirlbqibqrrinhdjibq,ihoirjxtdidxirjltqibk
q.qtkijls;inhdjivxdjibkijlogrihoijhr,ivxegekighsihodxidjqiSxde ayixc
vxdjinxtegrmiDxileeidjhriHifxkx rekilrrqodqg;icxtivqrhgqridjqilccqadhxo
HioxnicqedicxtiZ qqz qu,ijqinlriloiqpsqthqoaqgijltsxxoqqt,ilogilrir aj,
ax egioxdiclheidxivqixciutqldi rqc eoqrridxixoq,injx,iehyqibq,inlr
njxeekihuoxtlodixcidjqibkrdqthqrixcinjlehou,idjx ujinqeeilaz lhodqg
nhdjidjqirql,ilriyoxnoidxibqtajlodirqlbqom

Jhrirdxtkivqhouiqogqginhdjijhrishsq’rielrdigkhouis cc,iZ qqz qu
qbvtlaqgibq,istqrrqgijhricxtqjqlgilulhordibhoq,ilogivexnhouix didjq
ehujd,inqitxeeqgix.qtictxbiqlajixdjqt,idjhrinlkilogidjld,ilogi.qtkirxxo
nqtqireqqshoum


AJLSDQTi13miNjqqevlttxnm

Oqpdibxtohou,iBxoglk,ilcdqtighrsxrhouixcidjqiqbvlebqgijqlgidxilivltvqt,
cxtilivexay,iHirqddeqgibkixnoilogiaxbtlgq’rivhee;i rhou,ijxnq.qt,ibk
axbtlgq’ribxoqkmiDjqiuthoohouielogextg,ilrinqeeilridjqivxltgqtr,irqqbqg
lblwhouekidhayeqgildidjqir ggqoicthqogrjhsinjhajijlgirst oui sivqdnqqo
bqilogiZ qqz qu—qrsqahleekilriSqdqtiAxccho’riaxayilogiv eeirdxthqr
lvx dijhbijlgistq.hx rekirxib ajileltbqgibqiaxoaqtohouidjqi.qtkisqtrxo
njxbiHioxniaxbslohqginhdjm

Nqivxttxnqgilinjqqevlttxn,ilogiqbvltyhouix tidjhour,ihoae ghouibkixno
sxxtialtsqd-vlu,ilogiZ qqz qu’rialo.lrirlayilogijlbbxay,ilnlkinqinqod
gxnoidxi“djqiBxrr,”idjqiehddeqiOlod ayqdislayqdirajxxoqtibxxtqgildidjq
njltcmiLrinqinqtqiuxhouilexouidjqisqxseqirdltqg;ioxdildiZ qqz quirx
b aj—cxtidjqkinqtqi rqgidxirqqhouialoohvleriehyqijhbihoidjqht
rdtqqdr,—v dildirqqhouijhbilogibqi sxoir ajiaxochgqodhleidqtbrmiV dinq
jqqgqgidjqbioxd,iuxhouilexouinjqqehouidjqivlttxnivkid tor,ilogiZ qqz qu
oxnilogidjqoirdxsshouidxilgf rdidjqirjqldjixoijhrijltsxxoivltvrmiH
lryqgijhbinjkijqialtthqgir ajilidtx veqrxbqidjhouinhdjijhbilrjxtq,ilog
njqdjqtileeinjlehouirjhsrighgioxdichogidjqhtixnoijltsxxormiDxidjhr,iho
r vrdloaq,ijqitqsehqg,idjldidjx ujinjldiHijhodqginlridt qiqox uj,ikqd
jqijlgilisltdha eltilccqadhxoicxtijhrixnoijltsxxo,ivqal rqihdinlrixc
lrr tqgird cc,inqeeidthqgihoiblokilibxtdleiaxbvld,ilogigqqsekihodhbldq
nhdjidjqijqltdrixcinjleqrmiHoirjxtd,iehyqiblokihoelogitqlsqtrilog
bxnqtr,injxiuxihodxidjqicltbqtr’ibqlgxnriltbqginhdjidjqhtixno
rakdjqr—djx ujihoioxinhrqixvehuqgidxic tohrjidjqb—q.qoirx,iZ qqz qu,
cxtijhrixnoisth.ldqitqlrxor,istqcqttqgijhrixnoijltsxxom

Rjhcdhouidjqivlttxnictxbibkijlogidxijhr,ijqidxegibqilic ookirdxtkilvx d
djqichtrdinjqqevlttxnijqijlgiq.qtirqqomiHdinlrihoiRluiJltvxtmiDjq
xnoqtrixcijhrirjhs,ihdirqqbr,ijlgieqodijhbixoq,ihoinjhajidxialttkijhr
jql.kiajqrdidxijhrivxltghouijx rqmiOxdidxirqqbihuoxtlodilvx didjq
djhou—djx ujihoidt djijqinlriqodhtqekirx,iaxoaqtohouidjqistqahrqinlkiho
njhajidxibloluqidjqivlttxn—Z qqz quis drijhriajqrdi sxoihd;ielrjqrihd
clrd;ilogidjqoirjx egqtridjqivlttxnilogibltajqri sidjqinjltcmi“Njk,”
rlhgiH,i“Z qqz qu,ikx ibhujdijl.qiyoxnoivqddqtidjloidjld,ixoqinx eg
djhoymiGhgo’didjqisqxseqiel uj?”

 sxoidjhr,ijqidxegibqiloxdjqtirdxtkmiDjqisqxseqixcijhrihrelogixc
Txyx.xyx,ihdirqqbr,ildidjqhtinqgghouicqlrdriqpstqrridjqictlutlodinldqt
xcikx ouiaxaxlo drihodxilieltuqirdlhoqgialelvlrjiehyqilis oajvxne;ilog
djhris oajvxneilenlkricxtbridjqiutqldiaqodtleixtolbqodixoidjqivtlhgqg
bldinjqtqidjqicqlrdihrijqegmiOxniliaqtdlhoiutlogibqtajlodirjhsixoaq
dx ajqgildiTxyx.xyx,ilogihdriaxbblogqt—ctxbileeilaax odr,ili.qtk
rdldqekis oadhehx riuqodeqblo,ildieqlrdicxtilirqlialsdlho—djhr
axbblogqtinlriho.hdqgidxidjqinqgghouicqlrdixciZ qqz qu’rirhrdqt,il
stqddkikx ouisthoaqrrif rdid toqgixcidqomiNqee;injqoileeidjqinqgghou
u qrdrinqtqilrrqbveqgildidjqivthgq’rivlbvxxiaxddluq,idjhriAlsdlho
bltajqriho,ilogivqhouilrrhuoqgidjqisxrdixcijxoxt,iselaqgijhbrqecix.qt
lulhordidjqis oajvxne,ilogivqdnqqoidjqiJhujiSthqrdilogijhriblfqrdkidjq
Yhou,iZ qqz qu’ricldjqtmiUtlaqivqhouirlhg,—cxtidjxrqisqxseqijl.qidjqht
utlaqilrinqeeilrinq—djx ujiZ qqz quidxegibqidjldi oehyqi r,injxildir aj
dhbqriexxyigxnonltgridxix tiselddqtr,idjqk,ixoidjqiaxodtltk,iaxskhou
djqig ayr,iueloaqi snltgridxidjqiutqldiUh.qtixcileeicqlrdr—Utlaq,iH
rlk,ivqhouirlhg,idjqiJhujiSthqrdixsqoridjqivloz qdivkidjqihbbqbxthle
aqtqbxokixcidjqihrelog;idjldihr,ighsshouijhriaxorqatldqgilog
axorqatldhouichouqtrihodxidjqivxneivqcxtqidjqiveqrrqgivq.qtluq
ahta eldqrmiRqqhouijhbrqeciselaqgioqpdidjqiSthqrd,ilogioxdhouidjq
aqtqbxok,ilogidjhoyhouijhbrqec—vqhouiAlsdlhoixcilirjhs—lrijl.houiselho
stqaqgqoaqix.qtilibqtqihrelogiYhou,iqrsqahleekihoidjqiYhou’rixno
jx rq—djqiAlsdlhoiaxxeekistxaqqgridxinlrjijhrijlogrihoidjq
s oajvxne;—dlyhouihdiHir ssxrqicxtilij uqichouqt-uelrrmi“Oxn,”irlhg
Z qqz qu,i“njldikx idhoyioxn?—Ghgo’dix tisqxseqiel uj?”

Ldielrd,islrrluqislhg,ilogie uuluqirlcq,inqirdxxgixoivxltgidjq
rajxxoqtmiJxhrdhouirlhe,ihdiuehgqgigxnoidjqiLa rjoqdith.qtmiXoixoq
rhgq,iOqniVqgcxtgitxrqihoidqttlaqrixcirdtqqdr,idjqhtihaq-ax.qtqgidtqqr
leeiuehddqthouihoidjqiaeqlt,iaxegilhtmiJ uqijheerilogibx odlhorixc
alryrixoialryrinqtqisheqgi sxoijqtinjlt.qr,ilogirhgqivkirhgqidjq
nxteg-nlogqthouinjleqirjhsrielkirheqodilogirlcqekibxxtqgildielrd;injheq
ctxbixdjqtrialbqilirx ogixcialtsqodqtrilogiaxxsqtr,inhdjiveqogqgioxhrqr
xcichtqrilogicxtuqridxibqedidjqishdaj,ileeivqdxyqohouidjldioqniat hrqr
nqtqixoidjqirdltd;idjldixoqibxrdisqthex rilogiexoui.xkluqiqogqg,ixoek
vquhorilirqaxog;ilogilirqaxogiqogqg,ixoekivquhorilidjhtg,ilogirxixo,
cxtiq.qtilogicxtilkqmiR ajihridjqiqogeqrroqrr,ikql,idjqihodxeqtlveqoqrr
xcileeiqltdjekiqccxtdm

Ulhohouidjqibxtqixsqoinldqt,idjqivtlahouivtqqwqinlpqgictqrj;idjqiehddeq
Bxrridxrrqgidjqiz hayicxlbictxbijqtivxnr,ilrilikx ouiaxedijhr
roxtdhourmiJxniHiro ccqgidjldiDltdltilht!—jxniHirs toqgidjldid toshyq
qltdj!—djldiaxbbxoijhujnlkileeix.qtigqodqginhdjidjqibltyrixcirel.hrj
jqqerilogijxxcr;ilogid toqgibqidxilgbhtqidjqibluolohbhdkixcidjqirql
njhajinheeisqtbhdioxitqaxtgrm

Ldidjqirlbqicxlb-cx odlho,iZ qqz quirqqbqgidxigthoyilogitqqeinhdjibqm
Jhrig rykioxrdtherirnqeeqgilsltd;ijqirjxnqgijhricheqgilogisxhodqg
dqqdjmiXo,ixoinqiceqn;ilogix tixcchouiulhoqg,idjqiBxrrighgijxbluqidx
djqivelrd;ig ayqgilogigh.qgijqtivxnrilrilirel.qivqcxtqidjqiR edlom
Rhgqnlkrieqlohou,inqirhgqnlkrigltdqg;iq.qtkitxsqkltoidhouehouiehyqil
nhtq;idjqidnxidleeiblrdriv ayehouiehyqiHoghloialoqrihoielogidxtolgxqrm
Rxic eeixcidjhritqqehouiraqoqinqtqinq,ilrinqirdxxgivkidjqise ouhou
vxnrsthd,idjldicxtirxbqidhbqinqighgioxdioxdhaqidjqifqqthouiueloaqrixc
djqislrrqouqtr,ilie vvqt-ehyqilrrqbvek,injxiblt.qeeqgidjldidnxicqeexn
vqhourirjx egivqirxiaxbslohxolveq;ilridjx ujilinjhdqibloinqtqilokdjhou
bxtqighuohchqgidjloilinjhdqnlrjqgioqutxmiV didjqtqinqtqirxbqivxxvhqr
logiv bsyhoridjqtq,injx,ivkidjqhtihodqorqiutqqooqrr,ib rdijl.qiaxbq
ctxbidjqijqltdilogiaqodtqixcileei.qtg tqmiZ qqz quial ujdixoqixcidjqrq
kx ouirlsehouribhbhayhouijhbivqjhogijhrivlaymiHidjx ujdidjqiv bsyho’r
jx tixcigxxbinlriaxbqmiGtxsshouijhrijltsxxo,idjqivtlnokirl.luqial ujd
jhbihoijhriltbr,ilogivkiloilebxrdibhtla ex rigqpdqthdkilogirdtqoudj,
rqodijhbijhuji sivxghekihodxidjqilht;idjqoirehujdekidlsshouijhrirdqto
hoibhg-rxbqtrqd,idjqicqeexnielogqginhdjiv trdhouie ouri sxoijhricqqd,
njheqiZ qqz qu,id tohouijhrivlayi sxoijhb,iehujdqgijhridxbljlnyishsq
logislrrqgihdidxibqicxtilis ccm

“Alsdhou!iAlsdhou!”ikqeeqgidjqiv bsyho,it oohouidxnltgridjldixcchaqt;
“Alsdhou,iAlsdhou,ijqtq’ridjqigq.hem”

“Jleex,i_kx _irht,”iathqgidjqiAlsdlho,iliul odithvixcidjqirql,irdleyhou
 sidxiZ qqz qu,i“njldihoidj ogqtigxikx ibqloivkidjld?iGxo’dikx iyoxn
kx ibhujdijl.qiyheeqgidjldiajls?”

“Njldijhbirlk?”irlhgiZ qqz qu,ilrijqibhegekid toqgidxibqm

“Jqirlk,”irlhgiH,i“djldikx ialbqioqltiyhee-qidjldibloidjqtq,”isxhodhou
dxidjqirdheeirjh.qthouiutqqojxtom

“Yhee-q,”iathqgiZ qqz qu,idnhrdhouijhridlddxxqgiclaqihodxiloi oqltdjek
qpstqrrhxoixcighrglho,i“lj!ijhbivq.kirblee-qichrj-q;iZ qqz quioxiyhee-q
rxirblee-qichrj-q;iZ qqz quiyhee-qivhuinjleq!”

“Exxyikx ,”itxltqgidjqiAlsdlho,i“H’eeiyhee-qi_kx _,ikx ialoohvle,ihc
kx idtkilokibxtqixcikx tidthayrilvxltgijqtq;irxibhogikx tiqkqm”

V dihdirxijlssqoqgif rdidjqo,idjldihdinlrijhujidhbqicxtidjqiAlsdlhoidx
bhogijhrixnoiqkqmiDjqistxghuhx rirdtlhoi sxoidjqiblho-rlheijlgisltdqg
djqinqldjqt-rjqqd,ilogidjqidtqbqogx rivxxbinlrioxnicekhouictxbirhgqidx
rhgq,iaxbseqdqekirnqqshouidjqiqodhtqilcdqtisltdixcidjqigqaymiDjqisxxt
cqeexninjxbiZ qqz quijlgijlogeqgirxitx ujek,inlrirnqsdix.qtvxltg;ilee
jlogrinqtqihoilisloha;ilogidxilddqbsdiroldajhouildidjqivxxbidxirdlkihd,
rqqbqgiblgoqrrmiHdiceqnictxbithujdidxieqcd,ilogivlayilulho,ilebxrdiho
xoqidhayhouixcilinldaj,ilogiq.qtkihordlodirqqbqgixoidjqisxhodixc
rolsshouihodxirsehodqtrmiOxdjhouinlrigxoq,ilogioxdjhouirqqbqgialslveq
xcivqhouigxoq;idjxrqixoigqayit rjqgidxnltgridjqivxnr,ilogirdxxgiqkqhou
djqivxxbilrihcihdinqtqidjqiexnqtiflnixciloiqplrsqtldqginjleqmiHoidjq
bhgrdixcidjhriaxordqtoldhxo,iZ qqz quigtxssqgigqcdekidxijhriyoqqr,ilog
atlnehoui ogqtidjqisldjixcidjqivxxb,injhssqgijxegixcilitxsq,irqa tqg
xoqiqogidxidjqiv enltyr,ilogidjqoicehouhouidjqixdjqtiehyqilielrrx,
al ujdihditx ogidjqivxxbilrihdirnqsdix.qtijhrijqlg,ilogildidjqioqpd
fqty,idjqirsltinlridjldinlkidtlssqg,ilogileeinlrirlcqmiDjqirajxxoqtinlr
t oihodxidjqinhog,iloginjheqidjqijlogrinqtqiaeqlthouilnlkidjqirdqto
vxld,iZ qqz qu,irdthssqgidxidjqinlhrd,igltdqgictxbidjqirhgqinhdjiliexou
eh.houiltaixcilieqlsmiCxtidjtqqibho dqrixtibxtqijqinlrirqqoirnhbbhou
ehyqiligxu,idjtxnhouijhriexouiltbrirdtlhujdix divqcxtqijhb,ilogivk
d toritq.qlehouijhrivtlnokirjx egqtridjtx ujidjqictqqwhouicxlbmiH
exxyqgildidjqiutlogilogiuexthx ricqeexn,iv dirlnioxixoqidxivqirl.qgm
DjqiutqqojxtoijlgiuxoqigxnomiRjxxdhouijhbrqecisqtsqogha eltekictxbidjq
nldqt,iZ qqz qu,ioxnidxxyiloihordlod’riueloaqiltx ogijhb,ilogirqqbhou
dxirqqif rdijxniblddqtrinqtq,igh.qgigxnoilogighrlssqltqgmiLicqnibho dqr
bxtq,ilogijqitxrqilulho,ixoqiltbirdheeirdthyhouix d,iloginhdjidjqixdjqt
gtluuhouiliehcqeqrricxtbmiDjqivxldirxxoishayqgidjqbi smiDjqisxxt
v bsyhoinlritqrdxtqgmiLeeijlogri.xdqgiZ qqz quilioxveqidt bs;idjq
alsdlhoivquuqgijhrisltgxomiCtxbidjldijx tiHiaex.qidxiZ qqz quiehyqil
vltolaeq;ikql,idheeisxxtiZ qqz quidxxyijhrielrdiexouigh.qm

Nlridjqtqiq.qtir aji oaxorahx roqrr?iJqighgioxdirqqbidxidjhoyidjldijq
ldileeigqrqt.qgilibqgleictxbidjqiJ bloqilogiBluolohbx riRxahqdhqrmiJq
xoekilryqgicxtinldqt—ctqrjinldqt—rxbqdjhouidxinhsqidjqivthoqixcc;idjld
gxoq,ijqis dixoigtkiaexdjqr,iehujdqgijhrishsq,ilogieqlohouilulhordidjq
v enltyr,ilogibhegekiqkqhouidjxrqiltx ogijhb,irqqbqgidxivqirlkhouidx
jhbrqec—“Hd’rilib d le,ifxhod-rdxayinxteg,ihoileeibqthghlormiNq
aloohvlerib rdijqesidjqrqiAjthrdhlorm”


AJLSDQTi14miOlod ayqdm

Oxdjhouibxtqijlssqoqgixoidjqislrrluqinxtdjkidjqibqodhxohou;irx,ilcdqtil
choqit o,inqirlcqekiltth.qgihoiOlod ayqdm

Olod ayqd!iDlyqix dikx tiblsilogiexxyildihdmiRqqinjldilitqleiaxtoqtixc
djqinxtegihdixaa shqr;ijxnihdirdlogridjqtq,ilnlkixccirjxtq,ibxtqiexoqek
djloidjqiQggkrdxoqiehujdjx rqmiExxyildihd—libqtqijheexay,ilogiqevxnixc
rlog;ileeivqlaj,inhdjx dilivlayutx ogmiDjqtqihribxtqirlogidjqtqidjlo
kx inx egi rqihoidnqodkikqltrilrilir vrdhd dqicxtivexddhouislsqtmiRxbq
ulbqrxbqinhujdrinheeidqeeikx idjldidjqkijl.qidxiselodinqqgridjqtq,idjqk
gxo’diutxniold tleek;idjldidjqkihbsxtdiAlolglidjhrdeqr;idjldidjqkijl.q
dxirqogivqkxogirqlricxtilirsheqidxirdxsilieqlyihoiloixheialry;idjld
shqaqrixcinxxgihoiOlod ayqdiltqialtthqgilvx diehyqivhdrixcidjqidt q
atxrrihoiTxbq;idjldisqxseqidjqtqiselodidxlgrdxxerivqcxtqidjqhtijx rqr,
dxiuqdi ogqtidjqirjlgqihoir bbqtidhbq;idjldixoqivelgqixciutlrriblyqrilo
xlrhr,idjtqqivelgqrihoiliglk’rinleyilistlhthq;idjldidjqkinqltiz hayrlog
rjxqr,irxbqdjhouiehyqiElselogqtiroxn-rjxqr;idjldidjqkiltqirxirj di s,
vqedqgilvx d,iq.qtkinlkihoaexrqg,ir ttx ogqg,ilogiblgqiloi ddqtihrelog
xcivkidjqixaqlo,idjldidxidjqhti.qtkiajlhtrilogidlveqrirbleeiaelbrinhee
rxbqdhbqrivqicx ogilgjqthou,ilridxidjqivlayrixcirqlid tdeqrmiV didjqrq
qpdtl.lulowlrixoekirjxnidjldiOlod ayqdihrioxiHeehoxhrm

Exxyioxnildidjqinxogtx ridtlghdhxoleirdxtkixcijxnidjhrihreloginlr
rqddeqgivkidjqitqg-bqomiDj riuxqridjqiequqogmiHoixegqoidhbqriloiqlueq
rnxxsqgigxnoi sxoidjqiOqniQouelogiaxlrd,ilogialtthqgixcciloihoclod
HoghloihoijhridlexormiNhdjiex gielbqodidjqisltqodrirlnidjqhtiajheg
vxtoqix dixcirhujdix.qtidjqinhgqinldqtrmiDjqkitqrxe.qgidxicxeexnihoidjq
rlbqightqadhxomiRqddhouix dihoidjqhtialoxqr,ilcdqtilisqthex rislrrluq
djqkighrax.qtqgidjqihrelog,ilogidjqtqidjqkicx ogiloiqbsdkih.xtk
alryqd,—djqisxxtiehddeqiHoghlo’riryqeqdxom

Njldinxogqt,idjqo,idjldidjqrqiOlod ayqdqtr,ivxtoixoilivqlaj,irjx eg
dlyqidxidjqirqlicxtilieh.qehjxxg!iDjqkichtrdial ujdiatlvrilogiz xjxur
hoidjqirlog;iutxnoivxegqt,idjqkinlgqgix dinhdjioqdricxtiblayqtqe;ibxtq
qpsqthqoaqg,idjqkis rjqgixccihoivxldrilogialsd tqgiaxg;ilogildielrd,
el oajhouiliol.kixciutqldirjhsrixoidjqirql,iqpsextqgidjhrinldqtkinxteg;
s diloihoaqrrlodivqedixciahta bol.huldhxoritx ogihd;isqqsqgihoild
Vqjthou’riRdtlhdr;ilogihoileeirqlrxorilogileeixaqlorigqaeltqg
q.qtelrdhouinltinhdjidjqibhujdhqrdilohbldqgiblrridjldijlrir t.h.qgidjq
cexxg;ibxrdibxordtx rilogibxrdibx odlhox r!iDjldiJhbbleqjlo,irled-rql
Blrdxgxo,iaexdjqginhdjir ajisxtdqodx roqrrixci oaxorahx risxnqt,idjld
jhri.qtkislohariltqibxtqidxivqigtqlgqgidjloijhribxrdicqlteqrrilog
blehahx rilrrl edr!

Logidj rijl.qidjqrqiolyqgiOlod ayqdqtr,idjqrqirqlijqtbhdr,ihrr houictxb
djqhtilod-jheeihoidjqirql,ix.qtt oilogiaxoz qtqgidjqinldqtkinxtegiehyq
rxiblokiLeqplogqtr;isltaqeehouix dilbxouidjqbidjqiLdelodha,iSlahcha,
logiHoghloixaqlor,ilridjqidjtqqishtldqisxnqtrighgiSxelogmiEqdiLbqthal
lggiBqphaxidxiDqplr,ilogisheqiA vli sxoiAlolgl;ieqdidjqiQouehrj
x.qtrnltbileeiHoghl,ilogijlouix didjqhtivelwhouivlooqtictxbidjqir o;
dnxidjhtgrixcidjhridqttlz qx riuexvqiltqidjqiOlod ayqdqt’rmiCxtidjqirql
hrijhr;ijqixnorihd,ilriQbsqtxtrixnoiqbshtqr;ixdjqtirqlbqoijl.houiv dil
thujdixcinlkidjtx ujihdmiBqtajlodirjhsriltqiv diqpdqorhxoivthguqr;
ltbqgixoqriv dicexldhouicxtdr;iq.qoishtldqrilogisth.ldqqtr,idjx uj
cxeexnhouidjqirqlilrijhujnlkbqoidjqitxlg,idjqkiv dise ogqtixdjqtirjhsr,
xdjqtictlubqodrixcidjqielogiehyqidjqbrqe.qr,inhdjx dirqqyhouidxigtln
djqhtieh.houictxbidjqivxddxbeqrrigqqsihdrqecmiDjqiOlod ayqdqt,ijqilexoq
tqrhgqrilogithxdrixoidjqirql;ijqilexoq,ihoiVhveqielou luq,iuxqrigxnoidx
hdihoirjhsr;idxilogictxisex ujhouihdilrijhrixnoirsqahleiselodldhxom
_Djqtq_ihrijhrijxbq;i_djqtq_iehqrijhriv rhoqrr,injhajiliOxlj’ricexxg
nx egioxdihodqtt sd,idjx ujihdix.qtnjqebqgileeidjqibheehxorihoiAjholm
Jqieh.qrixoidjqirql,ilristlhthqiaxayrihoidjqistlhthq;ijqijhgqrilbxou
djqinl.qr,ijqiaehbvridjqbilriajlbxhrij odqtriaehbvidjqiLesrmiCxtikqltr
jqiyoxnrioxdidjqielog;irxidjldinjqoijqiaxbqridxihdildielrd,ihdirbqeer
ehyqiloxdjqtinxteg,ibxtqirdtlouqekidjloidjqibxxoinx egidxiloiQltdjrblom
Nhdjidjqielogeqrriu ee,idjldildir orqdicxegrijqtinhourilogihritxayqgidx
reqqsivqdnqqoivheexnr;irxildiohujdclee,idjqiOlod ayqdqt,ix dixcirhujd
xcielog,ic terijhrirlher,ilogielkrijhbidxijhritqrd,injheqi ogqtijhr
.qtkisheexnit rjijqtgrixcinlet rqriloginjleqrm


AJLSDQTi15miAjxngqtm

Hdinlriz hdqieldqihoidjqiq.qohouinjqoidjqiehddeqiBxrrialbqiro uekidx
loajxt,ilogiZ qqz quilogiHinqodilrjxtq;irxinqiax egilddqogidxiox
v rhoqrridjldiglk,ildieqlrdioxoqiv dilir ssqtilogilivqgmiDjqielogextg
xcidjqiRsx dqt-Hooijlgitqaxbbqogqgi ridxijhriax rhoiJxrqliJ rrqkixcidjq
DtkiSxdr,injxbijqilrrqtdqgidxivqidjqistxsthqdxtixcixoqixcidjqivqrdiyqsd
jxdqerihoileeiOlod ayqd,ilogibxtqx.qtijqijlgilrr tqgi ridjldiAx rho
Jxrql,ilrijqialeeqgijhb,inlriclbx ricxtijhriajxngqtrmiHoirjxtd,ijq
selhoekijhodqgidjldinqiax egioxdisxrrhvekigxivqddqtidjloidtkisxd-e ay
ldidjqiDtkiSxdrmiV didjqightqadhxorijqijlgiuh.qoi rilvx diyqqshouil
kqeexninltqjx rqixoix tirdltvxltgijlogidheeinqixsqoqgilinjhdqiaj tajidx
djqieltvxltg,ilogidjqoiyqqshouidjldixoidjqieltvxltgijlogidheeinqiblgqil
axtoqtidjtqqisxhodridxidjqirdltvxltg,ilogidjldigxoq,idjqoilryidjqichtrd
bloinqibqdinjqtqidjqiselaqinlr:idjqrqiatxxyqgightqadhxorixcijhri.qtk
b ajis wweqgi rildichtrd,iqrsqahleekilr,ildidjqix drqd,iZ qqz qu
horhrdqgidjldidjqikqeexninltqjx rq—x tichtrdisxhodixcigqsltd tq—b rdivq
eqcdixoidjqieltvxltgijlog,injqtqlriHijlgi ogqtrdxxgiSqdqtiAxcchoidxirlk
hdinlrixoidjqirdltvxltgmiJxnq.qt,ivkighodixcivqldhouilvx diliehddeqiho
djqiglty,ilogioxnilogidjqoiyoxayhoui silisqlaqlveqihojlvhdlodidx
hoz htqidjqinlk,inqildielrdialbqidxirxbqdjhouinjhajidjqtqinlriox
bhrdlyhoum

Dnxiqoxtbx rinxxgqoisxdrislhodqgivelay,ilogir rsqogqgivkilrrqr’iqltr,
rn ouictxbidjqiatxrr-dtqqrixciloixegidxs-blrd,iselodqgihoictxodixcilo
xegigxxtnlkmiDjqijxtorixcidjqiatxrr-dtqqrinqtqirlnqgixccixoidjqixdjqt
rhgq,irxidjldidjhrixegidxs-blrdiexxyqgioxdiliehddeqiehyqiliuleexnrm
SqtjlsriHinlrix.qtirqorhdh.qidxir ajihbstqrrhxorildidjqidhbq,iv diH
ax egioxdijqesirdlthouildidjhriuleexnrinhdjili.lu qibhruh.houmiLirxtd
xciathayinlrihoibkioqayilriHiulwqgi sidxidjqidnxitqblhohouijxtor;ikqr,
_dnx_ixcidjqb,ixoqicxtiZ qqz qu,ilogixoqicxtibqmiHd’rixbhox r,idjhoyr
HmiLiAxcchoibkiHooyqqsqti sxoieloghouihoibkichtrdinjlehouisxtd;
dxbvrdxoqrirdlthouildibqihoidjqinjleqbqo’riajlsqe;ilogijqtqiliuleexnr!
logilislhtixcistxghuhx rivelayisxdridxx!iLtqidjqrqielrdidjtxnhouix d
xvehz qijhodridx ajhouiDxsjqd?

Hinlrialeeqgictxbidjqrqitqceqadhxorivkidjqirhujdixcilictqayeqginxblo
nhdjikqeexnijlhtilogilikqeexniuxno,irdloghouihoidjqisxtajixcidjqihoo,
 ogqtilig eeitqgielbsirnhouhouidjqtq,idjldiexxyqgib ajiehyqiloihof tqg
qkq,ilogialttkhouixoilivthryiraxeghouinhdjilibloihoilis tseqinxxeeqo
rjhtdm

“Uqdilexouinhdjikq,”irlhgirjqidxidjqiblo,i“xtiH’eeivqiaxbvhouikq!”

“Axbqixo,iZ qqz qu,”irlhgiH,i“leeithujdmiDjqtq’riBtrmiJ rrqkm”

Logirxihdid toqgix d;iBtmiJxrqliJ rrqkivqhouictxbijxbq,iv dieql.hou
BtrmiJ rrqkiqodhtqekiaxbsqdqodidxilddqogidxileeijhrilcclhtrmi sxo
blyhouiyoxnoix tigqrhtqricxtilir ssqtilogilivqg,iBtrmiJ rrqk,
sxrdsxohouic tdjqtiraxeghouicxtidjqistqrqod,i rjqtqgi rihodxiliehddeq
txxb,ilogirqldhoui rildilidlveqirstqlginhdjidjqitqeharixcilitqaqodek
axoae gqgitqslrd,id toqgitx ogidxi rilogirlhg—“AelbixtiAxg?”

“Njld’ridjldilvx diAxgr,ibl’lb?”irlhgiH,inhdjib ajisxehdqoqrrm

“AelbixtiAxg?”irjqitqsqldqgm

“Liaelbicxtir ssqt?iliaxegiaelb;ihri_djld_injldikx ibqlo,iBtrmiJ rrqk?”
rlkriH,i“v didjld’rilitldjqtiaxegilogiaelbbkitqaqsdhxoihoidjqinhodqt
dhbq,ilho’dihd,iBtrmiJ rrqk?”

V divqhouihoiliutqldij ttkidxitqr bqiraxeghouidjqibloihoidjqis tseq
Rjhtd,injxinlrinlhdhouicxtihdihoidjqiqodtk,ilogirqqbhouidxijqltioxdjhou
v didjqinxtgi“aelb,”iBtrmiJ rrqkij tthqgidxnltgriloixsqoigxxtieqlghou
dxidjqiyhdajqo,ilogivlnehouix di“aelbicxtidnx,”ighrlssqltqgm

“Z qqz qu,”irlhgiH,i“gxikx idjhoyidjldinqialoiblyqix dilir ssqticxti r
vxdjixoixoqiaelb?”

Jxnq.qt,ilinltbirl.xtkirdqlbictxbidjqiyhdajqoirqt.qgidxivqehqidjq
lssltqodekiajqqteqrristxrsqadivqcxtqi rmiV dinjqoidjldirbxyhouiajxngqt
albqiho,idjqibkrdqtkinlrigqehujdc eekiqpselhoqgmiXj,irnqqdicthqogr!
jqltyqoidxibqmiHdinlriblgqixcirbleeif hakiaelbr,iraltaqekivhuuqtidjlo
jlwqeio dr,ibhpqginhdjisx ogqgirjhsivhra hd,ilogirledqgisxtyia di s
hodxiehddeqicelyqr;idjqinjxeqiqothajqginhdjiv ddqt,ilogiseqodhc eek
rqlrxoqginhdjisqssqtilogirledmiX tilssqdhdqrivqhouirjltsqoqgivkidjq
ctxrdki.xkluq,ilogihoisltdha elt,iZ qqz quirqqhouijhricl.x thdqichrjhou
cxxgivqcxtqijhb,ilogidjqiajxngqtivqhouir tslrrhouekiqpaqeeqod,inq
gqrsldajqgihdinhdjiutqldiqpsqghdhxo:injqoieqlohouivlayilibxbqodilog
vqdjhoyhouibqixciBtrmiJ rrqk’riaelbilogiaxgiloox oaqbqod,iHidjx ujdiH
nx egidtkiliehddeqiqpsqthbqodmiRdqsshouidxidjqiyhdajqoigxxt,iHi ddqtqg
djqinxtgi“axg”inhdjiutqldiqbsjlrhr,ilogitqr bqgibkirqldmiHoilicqn
bxbqodridjqirl.x tkirdqlbialbqicxtdjilulho,iv dinhdjilighccqtqod
cel.xt,ilogihoiuxxgidhbqilichoqiaxg-ajxngqtinlriselaqgivqcxtqi rm

Nqitqr bqgiv rhoqrr;iloginjheqisekhouix tirsxxorihoidjqivxne,idjhoyriH
dxibkrqec,iHinxogqtioxnihcidjhrijqtqijlrilokiqccqadixoidjqijqlg?iNjld’r
djldird edhckhouirlkhouilvx diajxngqt-jqlgqgisqxseq?i“V diexxy,
Z qqz qu,ilho’didjldilieh.qiqqeihoikx tivxne?iNjqtq’rikx tijltsxxo?”

ChrjhqrdixcileeichrjkiselaqrinlridjqiDtkiSxdr,injhajinqeeigqrqt.qgihdr
olbq;icxtidjqisxdridjqtqinqtqilenlkrivxhehouiajxngqtrmiAjxngqticxt
vtqlyclrd,ilogiajxngqticxtighooqt,ilogiajxngqticxtir ssqt,idheeikx 
vquloidxiexxyicxtichrj-vxoqriaxbhouidjtx ujikx tiaexdjqrmiDjqiltql
vqcxtqidjqijx rqinlrisl.qginhdjiaelb-rjqeermiBtrmiJ rrqkinxtqil
sxehrjqgioqayelaqixciaxgchrji.qtdqvtl;ilogiJxrqliJ rrqkijlgijhrilaax od
vxxyrivx ogihoir sqthxtixegirjlty-ryhomiDjqtqinlrilichrjkicel.xtidxidjq
bhey,idxx,injhajiHiax egioxdildileeilaax odicxt,idheeixoqibxtohou
jlssqohouidxidlyqilirdtxeeilexouidjqivqlajilbxouirxbqichrjqtbqo’r
vxldr,iHirlniJxrql’rivthogeqgiaxnicqqghouixoichrjitqbolodr,ilog
bltajhouilexouidjqirloginhdjiqlajicxxdihoiliaxg’rigqalshdldqgijqlg,
exxyhoui.qtkirehs-rjxg,iHilrr tqikqm

R ssqtiaxoae gqg,inqitqaqh.qgilielbs,ilogightqadhxorictxbiBtrmiJ rrqk
axoaqtohouidjqioqltqrdinlkidxivqg;iv d,ilriZ qqz quinlrilvx didx
stqaqgqibqi sidjqirdlhtr,idjqielgkitqlajqgicxtdjijqtiltb,ilogigqblogqg
jhrijltsxxo;irjqileexnqgioxijltsxxoihoijqtiajlbvqtrmi“Njkioxd?”irlhgiH;
“q.qtkidt qinjleqbloireqqsrinhdjijhrijltsxxo—v dinjkioxd?”i“Vqal rq
hd’riglouqtx r,”irlkrirjqmi“Q.qtirhoaqikx ouiRdhuuriaxbhouictxbidjld
 ocxtd’odi.’k’uqixcijhr,injqoijqinlriuxoqicx tikqltrilogilijlec,inhdj
xoekidjtqqivlttqerixci_heq_,inlricx ogigqlgihoibkichtrdicexxtivlay,
nhdjijhrijltsxxoihoijhrirhgq;iq.qtirhoaqidjqoiHileexnioxivxltgqtridx
dlyqirhajiglouqtx rinqqsxorihoidjqhtitxxbrildiohujdmiRx,iBtmiZ qqz qu”
(cxtirjqijlgieqltoqgijhriolbq),i“Hinheeif rdidlyqidjhrijqtqihtxo,ilog
yqqsihdicxtikx idheeibxtohoumiV didjqiajxngqt;iaelbixtiaxgidx-bxttxn
cxtivtqlyclrd,ibqo?”

“Vxdj,”irlkriH;i“logieqd’rijl.qiliax seqixcirbxyqgijqtthouivkinlkixc
.lthqdkm”


AJLSDQTi16miDjqiRjhsm

Hoivqginqiaxoaxadqgix tiseloricxtidjqibxttxnmiV didxibkir tsthrqilogiox
rbleeiaxoaqto,iZ qqz quioxniul.qibqidxi ogqtrdlog,idjldijqijlgivqqo
ghehuqodekiaxor edhouiKxfx—djqiolbqixcijhrivelayiehddeqiuxg—logiKxfx
jlgidxegijhbidnxixtidjtqqidhbqrix.qt,ilogirdtxouekihorhrdqgi sxoihd
q.qtknlk,idjldihordqlgixcix tiuxhouidxuqdjqtilbxouidjqinjlehou-ceqqdiho
jltvxt,ilogihoiaxoaqtdirqeqadhouix tiatlcd;ihordqlgixcidjhr,iHirlk,
Kxfxiqltoqrdekiqofxhoqgidjldidjqirqeqadhxoixcidjqirjhsirjx egitqrd
njxeekinhdjibq,iholrb ajilriKxfxis tsxrqgivqcthqoghoui r;ilog,ihoixtgqt
dxigxirx,ijlgiletqlgkishdajqgi sxoili.qrrqe,injhaj,ihcieqcdidxibkrqec,
H,iHrjblqe,irjx egihocleehvekiehujdi sxo,icxtileeidjqinxtegilridjx uj
hdijlgid toqgix divkiajloaq;ilogihoidjldi.qrrqeiHib rdihbbqghldqekirjhs
bkrqec,icxtidjqistqrqodihttqrsqadh.qixciZ qqz qum

Hijl.qicxtuxddqoidxibqodhxoidjld,ihoiblokidjhour,iZ qqz quiselaqgiutqld
axochgqoaqihoidjqiqpaqeeqoaqixciKxfx’rif gubqodilogir tsthrhouicxtqalrd
xcidjhour;ilogiajqthrjqgiKxfxinhdjiaxorhgqtlveqiqrdqqb,ilrilitldjqt
uxxgirxtdixciuxg,injxisqtjlsribqlodinqeeiqox uji sxoidjqinjxeq,iv diho
leeialrqrighgioxdir aaqqgihoijhrivqoq.xeqodigqrhuorm

Oxn,idjhriseloixciZ qqz qu’r,ixtitldjqtiKxfx’r,idx ajhouidjqirqeqadhxo
xcix tiatlcd;iHighgioxdiehyqidjldiseloildileemiHijlgioxdiliehddeq
tqehqgi sxoiZ qqz qu’rirlulahdkidxisxhodix didjqinjleqtivqrdichddqgidx
alttki rilogix ticxtd oqrirqa tqekmiV dilrileeibkitqbxordtloaqr
stxg aqgioxiqccqadi sxoiZ qqz qu,iHinlrixvehuqgidxilaz hqraq;ilog
laaxtghouekistqsltqgidxirqdilvx didjhriv rhoqrrinhdjiligqdqtbhoqg
t rjhouirxtdixciqoqtukilogi.huxt,idjldirjx egiz hayekirqddeqidjld
dthcehouiehddeqilcclhtmiOqpdibxtohouiqltek,ieql.houiZ qqz quirj di s
nhdjiKxfxihoix tiehddeqivqgtxxb—cxtihdirqqbqgidjldihdinlrirxbqirxtdixc
EqodixtiTlblglo,ixtiglkixciclrdhou,ij bhehldhxo,ilogistlkqtinhdj
Z qqz quilogiKxfxidjldiglk;i_jxn_ihdinlriHioq.qtiax egichogix d,icxt,
djx ujiHilssehqgibkrqecidxihdirq.qtleidhbqr,iHioq.qtiax egiblrdqtijhr
ehd tuhqrilogiPPPHPiLtdhaeqr—eql.houiZ qqz qu,idjqo,iclrdhouixoijhr
dxbljlnyishsq,ilogiKxfxinltbhouijhbrqecildijhrirlathchahleichtqixc
rjl.hour,iHirleehqgix dilbxouidjqirjhsshoumiLcdqtib ajistxexouqg
rl odqthouilogiblokitlogxbihoz hthqr,iHieqltodidjldidjqtqinqtqidjtqq
rjhsri sicxtidjtqq-kqltr’i.xkluqr—DjqiGq.he-glb,idjqiDhd-vhd,ilogidjq
Sqz xgmi_Gq.he-Glb_,iHigxioxdiyoxnidjqixthuhoixc;i_Dhd-vhd_ihrixv.hx r;
_Sqz xg_,ikx inheeioxigx vditqbqbvqt,inlridjqiolbqixciliaqeqvtldqg
dthvqixciBlrrlaj rqddriHoghlor;ioxniqpdhoadilridjqiloahqodiBqgqrmiH
sqqtqgilogistkqgilvx didjqiGq.he-glb;ictxbijqt,ijxssqgix.qtidxidjq
Dhd-vhd;ilogicholeek,iuxhouixoivxltgidjqiSqz xg,iexxyqgiltx ogijqticxt
libxbqod,ilogidjqoigqahgqgidjldidjhrinlridjqi.qtkirjhsicxti rm

Kx iblkijl.qirqqoiblokiliz lhodiatlcdihoikx tiglk,icxtil ujdiH
yoxn;—rz ltq-dxqgie uuqtr;ibx odlhox riFlsloqrqif oyr;iv ddqt-vxp
uleehxdr,iloginjldioxd;iv didlyqibkinxtgicxtihd,ikx ioq.qtirlnir ajil
tltqixegiatlcdilridjhrirlbqitltqixegiSqz xgmiRjqinlrilirjhsixcidjqixeg
rajxxe,itldjqtirbleeihcilokdjhou;inhdjiloixeg-clrjhxoqgiaeln-cxxdqg
exxyilvx dijqtmiExouirqlrxoqgiloginqldjqt-rdlhoqgihoidjqidksjxxorilog
alebrixcileeicx tixaqlor,ijqtixegij ee’riaxbseqphxoinlrigltyqoqgiehyqil
Ctqoajiutqolghqt’r,injxijlrilehyqicx ujdihoiQuksdilogiRhvqthlmiJqt
.qoqtlveqivxnriexxyqgivqltgqgmiJqtiblrdr—a dirxbqnjqtqixoidjqiaxlrdixc
Flslo,injqtqijqtixthuholeixoqrinqtqiexrdix.qtvxltgihoiliuleq—jqtiblrdr
rdxxgirdhcceki siehyqidjqirshoqrixcidjqidjtqqixegiyhourixciAxexuoqmiJqt
loahqodigqayrinqtqinxtoiloginthoyeqg,iehyqidjqisheuthb-nxtrjhssqg
celu-rdxoqihoiAlodqtv tkiAldjqgtleinjqtqiVqayqdiveqgmiV didxileeidjqrq
jqtixegilodhz hdhqr,inqtqilggqgioqnilogiblt.qeex ricqld tqr,isqtdlhohou
dxidjqinhegiv rhoqrridjldicxtibxtqidjloijleciliaqod tkirjqijlg
cxeexnqgmiXegiAlsdlhoiSqequ,iblokikqltrijqtiajhqc-bldq,ivqcxtqijq
axbblogqgiloxdjqti.qrrqeixcijhrixno,ilogioxnilitqdhtqgirqlblo,ilogixoq
xcidjqisthoahsleixnoqtrixcidjqiSqz xg,—djhrixegiSqequ,ig thouidjqidqtb
xcijhriajhqc-bldqrjhs,ijlgiv hedi sxoijqtixthuholeiutxdqrz qoqrr,ilog
hoelhgihd,ileeix.qt,inhdjiliz lhodoqrrivxdjixcibldqthleilogigq.haq,
 obldajqgivkilokdjhouiqpaqsdihdivqiDjxtyhee-Jlyq’rialt.qgiv ayeqtixt
vqgrdqlgmiRjqinlrilssltqeeqgiehyqilokivltvlthaiQdjhxshloiqbsqtxt,ijhr
oqayijql.kinhdjisqoglodrixcisxehrjqgih.xtkmiRjqinlrilidjhouixc
dtxsjhqrmiLialoohvleixciliatlcd,idthayhouijqtrqecicxtdjihoidjqiajlrqg
vxoqrixcijqtiqoqbhqrmiLeeitx og,ijqti osloqeeqg,ixsqoiv enltyrinqtq
ultohrjqgiehyqixoqiaxodho x rifln,inhdjidjqiexouirjltsidqqdjixcidjq
rsqtbinjleq,ihorqtdqgidjqtqicxtishor,idxiclrdqoijqtixegijqbsqoidjqnr
logidqogxoridxmiDjxrqidjqnritloioxdidjtx ujivlrqivexayrixcieloginxxg,
v digqcdekidtl.qeeqgix.qtirjql.qrixcirql-h.xtkmiRaxtohouilid tordheq
njqqeildijqtitq.qtqogijqeb,irjqirsxtdqgidjqtqilidheeqt;ilogidjldidheeqt
nlrihoixoqiblrr,ia thx rekialt.qgictxbidjqiexouiolttxniexnqtiflnixcijqt
jqtqghdltkicxqmiDjqijqebrbloinjxirdqqtqgivkidjldidheeqtihoilidqbsqrd,
cqediehyqidjqiDltdlt,injqoijqijxegrivlayijhrichqtkirdqqgivkiae dajhou
hdriflnmiLioxveqiatlcd,iv dirxbqjxnilibxrdibqeloajxek!iLeeioxveqidjhour
ltqidx ajqginhdjidjldm

OxninjqoiHiexxyqgilvx didjqiz ltdqt-gqay,icxtirxbqixoqijl.hou
l djxthdk,ihoixtgqtidxistxsxrqibkrqecilrilialoghgldqicxtidjqi.xkluq,ild
chtrdiHirlnioxvxgk;iv diHiax egioxdinqeeix.qtexxyilirdtlouqirxtdixc
dqod,ixtitldjqtinhunlb,ishdajqgiliehddeqivqjhogidjqiblho-blrdmiHd
rqqbqgixoekilidqbsxtltkiqtqadhxoi rqgihoisxtdmiHdinlrixciliaxohale
rjlsq,irxbqidqoicqqdijhuj;iaxorhrdhouixcidjqiexou,ij uqirelvrixciehbvqt
velayivxoqidlyqoictxbidjqibhggeqilogijhujqrdisltdixcidjqiflnrixcidjq
thujd-njleqmiSelodqginhdjidjqhtivtxlgiqogrixoidjqigqay,iliahtaeqixc
djqrqirelvrielaqgidxuqdjqt,ib d leekirexsqgidxnltgriqlajixdjqt,ilogild
djqilsqpi ohdqgihoilid cdqgisxhod,injqtqidjqiexxrqijlhtkichvtqrinl.qg
dxilogictxiehyqidjqidxs-yoxdixoirxbqixegiSxddxnxddlbhqiRlajqb’rijqlgmiL
dthlou eltixsqohouiclaqgidxnltgridjqivxnrixcidjqirjhs,irxidjldidjq
horhgqtiaxbblogqgiliaxbseqdqi.hqnicxtnltgm

Logijleciaxoaqleqgihoidjhriz qqtidqoqbqod,iHildieqoudjicx ogixoqinjxivk
jhrilrsqadirqqbqgidxijl.qil djxthdk;iloginjx,ihdivqhouioxxo,ilogidjq
rjhs’rinxtyir rsqogqg,inlrioxniqofxkhouitqrshdqictxbidjqiv tgqoixc
axbblogmiJqinlrirqldqgixoiloixeg-clrjhxoqgixlyqoiajlht,inthuuehouilee
x.qtinhdjia thx rialt.hou;ilogidjqivxddxbixcinjhajinlricxtbqgixcil
rdx dihodqtelahouixcidjqirlbqiqelrdhaird ccixcinjhajidjqinhunlbinlr
axordt adqgm

Djqtqinlrioxdjhouirxi.qtkisltdha elt,isqtjlsr,ilvx didjqilssqltloaqixc
djqiqegqtekibloiHirln;ijqinlrivtxnoilogivtlnok,iehyqibxrdixegirqlbqo,
logijql.hekitxeeqgi sihoive qishexd-aexdj,ia dihoidjqiZ lyqtirdkeq;
xoekidjqtqinlrilichoqilogilebxrdibhatxraxshaioqd-nxtyixcidjqibho dqrd
nthoyeqrihodqtelahouitx ogijhriqkqr,injhajib rdijl.qilthrqoictxbijhr
axodho leirlhehourihoiblokijltgiuleqr,ilogilenlkriexxyhouidx
nhognltg;—cxtidjhrial rqridjqib raeqrilvx didjqiqkqridxivqaxbqis trqg
dxuqdjqtmiR ajiqkq-nthoyeqriltqi.qtkiqccqad leihoiliraxnem

“HridjhridjqiAlsdlhoixcidjqiSqz xg?”irlhgiH,ilg.loahouidxidjqigxxtixc
djqidqodm

“R ssxrhouihdivqidjqialsdlhoixcidjqiSqz xg,injldigxrdidjx inlodixc
jhb?”ijqigqblogqgm

“Hinlridjhoyhouixcirjhsshoum”

“Djx inlrd,inlrdidjx ?iHirqqidjx iltdioxiOlod ayqdqt—q.qtivqqoihoil
rdx.qivxld?”

“Ox,iRht,iHioq.qtijl.qm”

“Gxrdiyoxnioxdjhouildileeilvx dinjlehou,iHigltqirlk—qj?

“Oxdjhou,iRht;iv diHijl.qioxigx vdiHirjleeirxxoieqltomiH’.qivqqo
rq.qtlei.xkluqrihoidjqibqtajlodirqt.haq,ilogiHidjhoyidjld—”

“Bqtajlodirqt.haqivqiglboqgmiDleyioxdidjldiehouxidxibqmiGxrdirqqidjld
equ?—H’eeidlyqidjldiequilnlkictxbidjkirdqto,ihciq.qtidjx idleyqrdixc
djqibltajlodirqt.haqidxibqilulhomiBltajlodirqt.haqihogqqg!iHir ssxrq
oxnikqicqqeiaxorhgqtlveqistx gixcijl.houirqt.qgihoidjxrqibltajlod
rjhsrmiV dice yqr!iblo,injldiblyqridjqqinlodidxiuxilinjlehou,iqj?—hd
exxyriliehddeqir rshahx r,igxo’dihd,iqj?—Jlrdioxdivqqoilishtldq,ijlrd
djx ?—GhgrdioxditxvidjkielrdiAlsdlho,ighgrdidjx ?—Gxrdioxdidjhoyixc
b tgqthouidjqixcchaqtrinjqoidjx iuqddqrdidxirql?”

HistxdqrdqgibkihooxaqoaqixcidjqrqidjhourmiHirlnidjldi ogqtidjqiblryixc
djqrqijlecij bxtx rihoo qogxqr,idjhrixegirqlblo,ilriloihor eldqg
Z lyqthrjiOlod ayqdqt,inlric eeixcijhrihor eltistqf ghaqr,ilogitldjqt
ghrdt rdc eixcileeilehqor,i oeqrridjqkijlheqgictxbiAlsqiAxgixtidjq
.hoqkltgm

“V dinjldidlyqridjqqil-njlehou?iHinlodidxiyoxnidjldivqcxtqiHidjhoyixc
rjhsshouikqm”

“Nqee,irht,iHinlodidxirqqinjldinjlehouihrmiHinlodidxirqqidjqinxtegm”

“Nlodidxirqqinjldinjlehouihr,iqj?iJl.qikqiaelssqgiqkqixoiAlsdlhoiLjlv?”

“NjxihriAlsdlhoiLjlv,irht?”

“Lkq,ilkq,iHidjx ujdirxmiAlsdlhoiLjlvihridjqiAlsdlhoixcidjhrirjhsm”

“HilbibhrdlyqoidjqomiHidjx ujdiHinlrirsqlyhouidxidjqiAlsdlhoijhbrqecm”

“Djx iltdirsqlyhouidxiAlsdlhoiSqequ—djld’rinjxikqiltqirsqlyhouidx,
kx ouiblomiHdivqexouridxibqilogiAlsdlhoiVheglgidxirqqidjqiSqz xgichddqg
x dicxtidjqi.xkluq,ilogir ssehqginhdjileeijqtioqqgr,ihoae ghouiatqnmiNq
ltqisltdixnoqtrilogiluqodrmiV dilriHinlriuxhouidxirlk,ihcidjx inlodqrd
dxiyoxninjldinjlehouihr,ilridjx idqeeqrdikqigx,iHialois dikqihoilinlk
xcichoghouihdix divqcxtqikqivhogikx trqecidxihd,islrdivlayhouix dmiAels
qkqixoiAlsdlhoiLjlv,ikx ouiblo,ilogidjx inhedichogidjldijqijlrixoekixoq
equm”

“Njldigxikx ibqlo,irht?iNlridjqixdjqtixoqiexrdivkilinjleq?”

“Exrdivkilinjleq!iKx ouiblo,iaxbqioqltqtidxibq:ihdinlrigq.x tqg,iajqnqg
 s,iat oajqgivkidjqibxordtx rqrdisltblaqddkidjldiq.qtiajhssqgil
vxld!—lj,ilj!”

Hinlriliehddeqileltbqgivkijhriqoqtuk,isqtjlsrilerxiliehddeqidx ajqgild
djqijqltdkiuthqcihoijhriaxoae ghouiqpaelbldhxo,iv dirlhgilrialebekilriH
ax eg,i“Njldikx irlkihrioxigx vdidt qiqox uj,irht;iv dijxniax egiHiyoxn
djqtqinlrilokisqa ehlticqtxahdkihoidjldisltdha eltinjleq,idjx ujihogqqg
Hibhujdijl.qihocqttqgilrib ajictxbidjqirhbseqicladixcidjqilaahgqodm”

“Exxyikqioxn,ikx ouiblo,idjkie ouriltqilirxtdixcirxcd,ig’kqirqq;idjx 
gxrdioxdidleyirjltyilivhdmi_R tq_,ikq’.qivqqoidxirqlivqcxtqioxn;ir tq
xcidjld?”

“Rht,”irlhgiH,i“Hidjx ujdiHidxegikx idjldiHijlgivqqoicx ti.xkluqriho
djqibqtajlod—”

“Jltgigxnoix dixcidjld!iBhoginjldiHirlhgilvx didjqibltajlod
rqt.haq—gxo’diluutl.ldqibq—Hinxo’dijl.qihdmiV dieqdi ri ogqtrdlogiqlaj
xdjqtmiHijl.qiuh.qoidjqqilijhodilvx dinjldinjlehouihr;igxikqikqdicqqe
hoaehoqgicxtihd?”

“Higx,irhtm”

“.qtkiuxxgmiOxn,iltdidjx idjqibloidxishdajilijltsxxoigxnoilieh.q
njleq’ridjtxld,ilogidjqoif bsilcdqtihd?iLornqt,iz hay!”

“Hilb,irht,ihcihdirjx egivqisxrhdh.qekihoghrsqorlveqidxigxirx;ioxdidx
vqiuxdithgixc,idjldihr;injhajiHigxo’didlyqidxivqidjqicladm”

“UxxgilulhomiOxnidjqo,idjx ioxdixoekinlodqrdidxiuxil-njlehou,idxichog
x divkiqpsqthqoaqinjldinjlehouihr,iv dikqilerxinlodidxiuxihoixtgqtidx
rqqidjqinxteg?iNlrioxdidjldinjldikqirlhg?iHidjx ujdirxmiNqeeidjqo,if rd
rdqsicxtnltgidjqtq,ilogidlyqilisqqsix.qtidjqinqldjqt-vxn,ilogidjqoivlay
dxibqilogidqeeibqinjldikqirqqidjqtqm”

CxtilibxbqodiHirdxxgiliehddeqis wweqgivkidjhria thx ritqz qrd,ioxd
yoxnhouiqpladekijxnidxidlyqihd,injqdjqtij bxtx rekixtihoiqltoqrdmiV d
axoaqodtldhouileeijhriatxn’ricqqdihodxixoqiraxne,iAlsdlhoiSqequirdltdqg
bqixoidjqiqttlogm

Uxhouicxtnltgilogiueloahouix.qtidjqinqldjqtivxn,iHisqtaqh.qgidjldidjq
rjhsirnhouhouidxijqtiloajxtinhdjidjqicexxg-dhgq,inlrioxnixvehz qek
sxhodhouidxnltgridjqixsqoixaqlomiDjqistxrsqadinlri oehbhdqg,iv d
qpaqqghouekibxoxdxox rilogicxtvhgghou;ioxdidjqirehujdqrdi.lthqdkidjldiH
ax egirqqm

“Nqee,injld’ridjqitqsxtd?”irlhgiSqequinjqoiHialbqivlay;i“njldighgikq
rqq?”

“Oxdib aj,”iHitqsehqg—“oxdjhouiv dinldqt;iaxorhgqtlveqijxthwxoidjx uj,
logidjqtq’rilirz leeiaxbhoui s,iHidjhoym”

“Nqee,injldigxqridjx idjhoyidjqoixcirqqhouidjqinxteg?iGxikqinhrjidxiux
tx ogiAlsqiJxtoidxirqqilokibxtqixcihd,iqj?iAlo’dikqirqqidjqinxteginjqtq
kx irdlog?”

Hinlriliehddeqirdluuqtqg,iv diuxil-njlehouiHib rd,ilogiHinx eg;ilogidjq
Sqz xginlrilriuxxgilirjhsilrilok—Hidjx ujdidjqivqrd—logileeidjhriHioxn
tqsqldqgidxiSqequmiRqqhouibqirxigqdqtbhoqg,ijqiqpstqrrqgijhr
nheehouoqrridxirjhsibqm

“Logidjx iblkqrdilrinqeeirhuoidjqislsqtrithujdixcc,”ijqilggqg—“axbq
lexouinhdjikqm”iLogirxirlkhou,ijqieqgidjqinlkivqexnigqayihodxidjq
alvhom

Rqldqgixoidjqidtlorxbinlrinjldirqqbqgidxibqilibxrdi oaxbbxoilog
r tsthrhouichu tqmiHdid toqgix didxivqiAlsdlhoiVheglg,injxilexouinhdj
AlsdlhoiSqequinlrixoqixcidjqieltuqrdixnoqtrixcidjqi.qrrqe;idjqixdjqt
rjltqr,ilrihrirxbqdhbqridjqialrqihoidjqrqisxtdr,ivqhouijqegivkiliatxng
xcixegiloo hdlodr;inhgxnr,icldjqteqrriajhegtqo,ilogiajloaqtkinltgr;
qlajixnohouilvx didjqi.le qixcilidhbvqtijqlg,ixtilicxxdixciseloy,ixtil
olheixtidnxihoidjqirjhsmiSqxseqihoiOlod ayqdiho.qrdidjqhtibxoqkiho
njlehoui.qrrqer,idjqirlbqinlkidjldikx igxikx trihoilsstx.qgirdldq
rdxayrivthouhouihoiuxxgihodqtqrdm

Oxn,iVheglg,iehyqiSqequ,ilogihogqqgiblokixdjqtiOlod ayqdqtr,inlril
Z lyqt,idjqihrelogijl.houivqqoixthuholeekirqddeqgivkidjldirqad;ilogidx
djhriglkihdrihojlvhdlodrihoiuqoqtleitqdlhoihoiloi oaxbbxoibqlr tqidjq
sqa ehlthdhqrixcidjqiZ lyqt,ixoeki.lthx rekilogiloxblex rekibxghchqgivk
djhouriledxuqdjqtilehqoilogijqdqtxuqoqx rmiCxtirxbqixcidjqrqirlbq
Z lyqtriltqidjqibxrdirlou holtkixcileeirlhextriloginjleq-j odqtrmiDjqk
ltqichujdhouiZ lyqtr;idjqkiltqiZ lyqtrinhdjili.qouqloaqm

Rxidjldidjqtqiltqihordloaqrilbxouidjqbixcibqo,injx,iolbqginhdj
Rathsd tqiolbqr—lirhou eltekiaxbbxoiclrjhxoixoidjqihrelog—logiho
ajhegjxxgiold tleekihbvhvhouidjqirdldqekigtlbldhaidjqqilogidjx ixcidjq
Z lyqtihghxb;irdhee,ictxbidjqil glahx r,iglthou,ilogivx ogeqrr
lg.qod tqixcidjqhtir vrqz qodieh.qr,irdtlouqekiveqoginhdjidjqrq
 ox dutxnoisqa ehlthdhqr,ilidjx rlogivxegiglrjqrixciajltladqt,ioxd
 onxtdjkiliRaloghol.hloirql-yhou,ixtilisxqdhaleiSluloiTxblomiLoginjqo
djqrqidjhouri ohdqihoilibloixciutqldekir sqthxtiold tleicxtaq,inhdjil
uexv eltivtlhoilogilisxogqtx rijqltd;injxijlrilerxivkidjqirdheeoqrrilog
rqae rhxoixciblokiexouiohujd-nldajqrihoidjqitqbxdqrdinldqtr,ilog
vqoqldjiaxordqeeldhxorioq.qtirqqoijqtqildidjqioxtdj,ivqqoieqgidxidjhoy
 odtlghdhxoleekilogihogqsqogqodek;itqaqh.houileeiold tq’rirnqqdixt
rl.luqihbstqrrhxorictqrjictxbijqtixnoi.htuhoi.xe odltkilogiaxochghou
vtqlrd,ilogidjqtqvkiajhqcek,iv dinhdjirxbqijqesictxbilaahgqodle
lg.lodluqr,idxieqltoilivxegilogioqt.x riexcdkielou luq—djldibloiblyqr
xoqihoilinjxeqioldhxo’riaqor r—libhujdkisluqlodiatqld tq,icxtbqgicxt
oxveqidtluqghqrmiOxtinheeihdildileeigqdtladictxbijhb,igtlbldhaleek
tqultgqg,ihciqhdjqtivkivhtdjixtixdjqtiahta brdloaqr,ijqijl.qinjldirqqbr
lijlecinhec eix.qtt ehouibxtvhgoqrrildidjqivxddxbixcijhriold tqmiCxt
leeibqoidtluhaleekiutqldiltqiblgqirxidjtx ujiliaqtdlhoibxtvhgoqrrmiVq
r tqixcidjhr,iXikx ouilbvhdhxo,ileeibxtdleiutqldoqrrihriv dighrqlrqm
V d,ilrikqdinqijl.qioxdidxigxinhdjir ajiloixoq,iv dinhdjiz hdqiloxdjqt;
logirdheeiliblo,injx,ihcihogqqgisqa ehlt,ihdixoekitqr edrilulhoictxb
loxdjqtisjlrqixcidjqiZ lyqt,ibxghchqgivkihogh.hg leiahta brdloaqrm

EhyqiAlsdlhoiSqequ,iAlsdlhoiVheglginlrilinqee-dx-gx,itqdhtqginjleqblom
V di oehyqiAlsdlhoiSqequ—njxialtqgioxdilit rjicxtinjldiltqialeeqg
rqthx ridjhour,ilogihogqqgigqqbqgidjxrqirqec-rlbqirqthx ridjhouridjq
.qthqrdixcileeidthceqr—AlsdlhoiVheglgijlgioxdixoekivqqoixthuholeek
qg aldqgilaaxtghouidxidjqirdthadqrdirqadixciOlod ayqdiZ lyqthrb,iv d
leeijhrir vrqz qodixaqloiehcq,ilogidjqirhujdixcibloki oaelg,iex.qek
hrelogiatqld tqr,itx ogidjqiJxto—leeidjldijlgioxdibx.qgidjhrioldh.q
vxtoiZ lyqtixoqirhoueqifxd,ijlgioxdirxib ajilriledqtqgixoqiloueqixcijhr
.qrdmiRdhee,icxtileeidjhrihbb dlveqoqrr,inlridjqtqirxbqielayixciaxbbxo
axorhrdqoakilvx dinxtdjkiAlsdlhoiVheglgmiDjx ujitqc rhou,ictxb
axorahqodhx rirat seqr,idxivqltiltbrilulhordielogiho.lgqtr,ikqdijhbrqec
jlgiheehbhdlvekiho.lgqgidjqiLdelodhailogiSlahcha;ilogidjx ujilirnxto
cxqidxij bloivexxgrjqg,ikqdijlgijqihoijhrirdtlhujd-vxghqgiaxld,irsheeqg
d ori sxoid orixcieq.hldjloiuxtqmiJxnioxnihoidjqiaxodqbseldh.qiq.qohou
xcijhriglkr,idjqishx riVheglgitqaxoaheqgidjqrqidjhourihoidjq
tqbhohraqoaq,iHigxioxdiyoxn;iv dihdighgioxdirqqbidxiaxoaqtoijhbib aj,
logi.qtkistxvlvekijqijlgiexouirhoaqiaxbqidxidjqirluqilogirqorhveq
axoae rhxoidjldiliblo’ritqehuhxoihrixoqidjhou,ilogidjhristladhaleinxteg
z hdqiloxdjqtmiDjhrinxtegislkrigh.hgqogrmiThrhouictxbiliehddeq
alvho-vxkihoirjxtdiaexdjqrixcidjqigtlvvqrdigtlv,idxilijltsxxoqqtihoil
vtxlgirjlg-vqeehqginlhrdaxld;ictxbidjldivqaxbhouivxld-jqlgqt,
ajhqc-bldq,ilogialsdlho,ilogicholeekilirjhsixnoqt;iVheglg,ilriHijhodqg
vqcxtq,ijlgiaxoae gqgijhrilg.qod tx rialtqqtivkinjxeekitqdhthouictxb
ladh.qiehcqildidjqiuxxgekiluqixcirhpdk,ilogigqghaldhouijhritqblhohou
glkridxidjqiz hqditqaqh.houixcijhrinqee-qltoqgihoaxbqm

Oxn,iVheglg,iHilbirxttkidxirlk,ijlgidjqitqs dldhxoixcivqhouilo
hoaxtthuhveqixegij oyr,ilogihoijhrirql-uxhouiglkr,ilivhddqt,ijltg
dlry-blrdqtmiDjqkidxegibqihoiOlod ayqd,idjx ujihdiaqtdlhoekirqqbril
a thx rirdxtk,idjldinjqoijqirlheqgidjqixegiAldqu dinjleqblo,ijhriatqn,
 sxoiltth.houijxbq,inqtqibxrdekileeialtthqgilrjxtqidxidjqijxrshdle,
rxtqiqpjl rdqgiloginxtoix dmiCxtilishx riblo,iqrsqahleekicxtiliZ lyqt,
jqinlriaqtdlhoekitldjqtijltg-jqltdqg,idxirlkidjqieqlrdmiJqioq.qti rqg
dxirnqlt,idjx uj,ildijhribqo,idjqkirlhg;iv dirxbqjxnijqiuxdilo
hoxtgholdqiz lodhdkixciat qe,i obhdhuldqgijltginxtyix dixcidjqbmiNjqo
Vheglginlriliajhqc-bldq,idxijl.qijhrigtlv-axex tqgiqkqihodqodekiexxyhou
ldikx ,iblgqikx icqqeiaxbseqdqekioqt.x r,idheeikx iax egiae daj
rxbqdjhou—lijlbbqtixtilibltehou-rshyq,ilogiuxidxinxtyiehyqiblg,ild
rxbqdjhouixtixdjqt,ioq.qtibhoginjldmiHogxeqoaqilogihgeqoqrrisqthrjqg
vqcxtqijhbmiJhrixnoisqtrxoinlridjqiqpladiqbvxghbqodixcijhri dhehdlthlo
ajltladqtmiXoijhriexou,iul odivxgk,ijqialtthqgioxirsltqiceqrj,iox
r sqtce x rivqltg,ijhriajhoijl.houilirxcd,iqaxoxbhaleiolsidxihd,iehyq
djqinxtoiolsixcijhrivtxlg-vthbbqgijldm

R aj,idjqo,inlridjqisqtrxoidjldiHirlnirqldqgixoidjqidtlorxbinjqoiH
cxeexnqgiAlsdlhoiSqequigxnoihodxidjqialvhomiDjqirslaqivqdnqqoidjqigqayr
nlrirblee;ilogidjqtq,ivxed- sthujd,irldixegiVheglg,injxilenlkrirldirx,
logioq.qtieqloqg,ilogidjhridxirl.qijhriaxldidlhermiJhrivtxlg-vthbinlr
selaqgivqrhgqijhb;ijhriequrinqtqirdhccekiatxrrqg;ijhrigtlvi.qrd tqinlr
v ddxoqgi sidxijhriajho;ilogirsqadlaeqrixoioxrq,ijqirqqbqgilvrxtvqgiho
tqlghouictxbilisxogqtx ri.xe bqm

“Vheglg,”iathqgiAlsdlhoiSqequ,i“ldihdilulho,iVheglg,iqj?iKqijl.qivqqo
rd gkhouidjxrqiRathsd tqr,ioxn,icxtidjqielrdidjhtdkikqltr,idxibk
aqtdlhoiyoxneqguqmiJxnicltikqiuxd,iVheglg?”

Lrihciexouijlvhd ldqgidxir ajistxcloqidleyictxbijhrixegirjhsbldq,
Vheglg,inhdjx dioxdhahouijhristqrqodihttq.qtqoaq,iz hqdekiexxyqgi s,
logirqqhouibq,iueloaqgilulhoihoz hthouekidxnltgriSqequm

“Jqirlkrijq’rix tiblo,iVheglg,”irlhgiSqequ,i“jqinlodridxirjhsm”

“Gxrdidjqq?”irlhgiVheglg,ihoilijxeexnidxoq,ilogid tohouitx ogidxibqm

“Hi_gxrd_,”irlhgiHi oaxorahx rek,ijqinlrirxihodqorqiliZ lyqtm

“Njldigxikqidjhoyixcijhb,iVheglg?”irlhgiSqequm

“Jq’eeigx,”irlhgiVheglg,iqkqhouibq,ilogidjqoinqodixoirsqeehouilnlkild
jhrivxxyihoilib bvehouidxoqiz hdqil ghveqm

Hidjx ujdijhbidjqiz qqtqrdixegiZ lyqtiHiq.qtirln,iqrsqahleekilriSqequ,
jhricthqogilogixegirjhsbldq,irqqbqgir ajilive rdqtqtmiV diHirlhg
oxdjhou,ixoekiexxyhouitx ogibqirjltsekmiSqequioxnidjtqnixsqoiliajqrd,
logigtlnhouicxtdjidjqirjhs’riltdhaeqr,iselaqgisqoilogihoyivqcxtqijhb,
logirqldqgijhbrqecildiliehddeqidlveqmiHivquloidxidjhoyihdinlrijhujidhbq
dxirqddeqinhdjibkrqecildinjldidqtbriHinx egivqinheehouidxiqouluqicxt
djqi.xkluqmiHinlriletqlgkilnltqidjldihoidjqinjlehouiv rhoqrridjqkislhg
oxinluqr;iv dileeijlogr,ihoae ghouidjqialsdlho,itqaqh.qgiaqtdlhoirjltqr
xcidjqistxchdrialeeqgi_elkr_,ilogidjldidjqrqielkrinqtqistxsxtdhxoqgidx
djqigqutqqixcihbsxtdloaqisqtdlhohouidxidjqitqrsqadh.qig dhqrixcidjq
rjhs’riaxbslokmiHinlrilerxilnltqidjldivqhouiliutqqoijlogildinjlehou,ibk
xnoielkinx egioxdivqi.qtkieltuq;iv diaxorhgqthouidjldiHinlri rqgidxidjq
rql,iax egirdqqtilirjhs,irsehaqilitxsq,ilogileeidjld,iHiblgqioxigx vd
djldictxbileeiHijlgijqltgiHirjx egivqixccqtqgildieqlrdidjqi275dj
elk—djldihr,idjqi275djisltdixcidjqiaeqltioqdistxaqqgrixcidjqi.xkluq,
njldq.qtidjldibhujdiq.qod leekilbx odidxmiLogidjx ujidjqi275djielkinlr
njldidjqkialeeilitldjqti_exouielk_,ikqdihdinlrivqddqtidjloioxdjhou;ilog
hcinqijlgilie ayki.xkluq,ibhujdistqddkioqltekislkicxtidjqiaexdjhouiH
nx eginqltix dixoihd,ioxdidxirsqlyixcibkidjtqqikqltr’ivqqcilogivxltg,
cxtinjhajiHinx egioxdijl.qidxislkixoqirdh.qtm

Hdibhujdivqidjx ujdidjldidjhrinlrilisxxtinlkidxilaa b eldqilisthoaqek
cxtd oq—logirxihdinlr,ili.qtkisxxtinlkihogqqgmiV diHilbixoqixcidjxrq
djldioq.qtidlyqixoilvx disthoaqekicxtd oqr,ilogilbiz hdqiaxodqodihcidjq
nxtegihritqlgkidxivxltgilogiexguqibq,injheqiHilbis ddhoui sildidjhr
uthbirhuoixcidjqiDj ogqtiAex gmi sxoidjqinjxeq,iHidjx ujdidjldidjq
275djielkinx egivqilvx didjqiclhtidjhou,iv dinx egioxdijl.qivqqo
r tsthrqgijlgiHivqqoixccqtqgidjqi200dj,iaxorhgqthouiHinlrixcil
vtxlg-rjx egqtqgiblyqm

V dixoqidjhou,ioq.qtdjqeqrr,idjldiblgqibqiliehddeqighrdt rdc eilvx d
tqaqh.houiliuqoqtx rirjltqixcidjqistxchdrinlridjhr:iLrjxtq,iHijlgijqltg
rxbqdjhouixcivxdjiAlsdlhoiSqequilogijhri olaax odlveqixegiatxokiVheglg;
jxnidjldidjqkivqhouidjqisthoahsleistxsthqdxtrixcidjqiSqz xg,idjqtqcxtq
djqixdjqtilogibxtqihoaxorhgqtlveqilogiralddqtqgixnoqtr,ieqcdioqltekidjq
njxeqibloluqbqodixcidjqirjhs’rilcclhtridxidjqrqidnxmiLogiHighgioxdiyoxn
v dinjldidjqirdhoukixegiVheglgibhujdijl.qilibhujdkigqleidxirlkilvx d
rjhsshouijlogr,iqrsqahleekilriHioxnicx ogijhbixoivxltgidjqiSqz xg,
z hdqildijxbqidjqtqihoidjqialvho,ilogitqlghouijhriVhveqilrihcildijhr
xnoichtqrhgqmiOxninjheqiSqequinlri.lhoekidtkhouidxibqogilisqoinhdjijhr
flay-yohcq,ixegiVheglg,idxibkioxirbleeir tsthrq,iaxorhgqthouidjldijq
nlrir ajiloihodqtqrdqgisltdkihoidjqrqistxaqqghour;iVheglgioq.qtijqqgqg
 r,iv dinqodixoib bvehouidxijhbrqecix dixcijhrivxxy,i“_Elk_ioxdi sicxt
kx trqe.qridtqlr tqri sxoiqltdj,injqtqibxdj—”

“Nqee,iAlsdlhoiVheglg,”ihodqtt sdqgiSqequ,i“njldig’kqirlk,injldielk
rjleeinqiuh.qidjhrikx ouiblo?”

“Djx iyoxnqrdivqrd,”inlridjqirqs eajtleitqsek,i“djqirq.qoij ogtqgilog
rq.qodk-rq.qodjinx ego’divqidxxib aj,inx egihd?—‘njqtqibxdjilogit rdigx
axtt sd,iv di_elk_—’”

_Elk_,ihogqqg,idjx ujdiH,ilogir ajilielk!idjqirq.qoij ogtqgilog
rq.qodk-rq.qodj!iNqee,ixegiVheglg,ikx iltqigqdqtbhoqgidjldiH,icxtixoq,
rjleeioxdi_elk_i sibloki_elkr_ijqtqivqexn,injqtqibxdjilogit rdigx
axtt sdmiHdinlriloiqpaqqghoueki_exouielk_idjld,ihogqqg;ilogidjx ujictxb
djqibluohd gqixcidjqichu tqihdibhujdildichtrdigqaqh.qilielogrblo,ikqd
djqirehujdqrdiaxorhgqtldhxoinheeirjxnidjldidjx ujirq.qoij ogtqgilog
rq.qodk-rq.qoihrilistqddkieltuqio bvqt,ikqd,injqoikx iaxbqidxiblyqil
_dqqodj_ixcihd,ikx inheeidjqoirqq,iHirlk,idjldidjqirq.qoij ogtqgilog
rq.qodk-rq.qodjisltdixcilicltdjhouihriliuxxgigqleieqrridjloirq.qo
j ogtqgilogirq.qodk-rq.qoiuxegigx vexxor;ilogirxiHidjx ujdildidjqidhbqm

“Njk,ivelrdikx tiqkqr,iVheglg,”iathqgiSqequ,i“djx igxrdioxdinlodidx
rnhogeqidjhrikx ouiblo!ijqib rdijl.qibxtqidjloidjldm”

“Rq.qoij ogtqgilogirq.qodk-rq.qodj,”ilulhoirlhgiVheglg,inhdjx diehcdhou
jhriqkqr;ilogidjqoinqodixoib bvehou—“cxtinjqtqikx tidtqlr tqihr,idjqtq
nheeikx tijqltdivqilerxm”

“Hilbiuxhouidxis dijhbigxnoicxtidjqidjtqqij ogtqgdj,”irlhgiSqequ,i“gx
kqijqltidjld,iVheglg!iDjqidjtqqij ogtqgdjielk,iHirlkm”

Vheglgielhgigxnoijhrivxxy,ilogid tohouirxeqboekidxnltgrijhbirlhg,
“AlsdlhoiSqequ,idjx ijlrdiliuqoqtx rijqltd;iv didjx ib rdiaxorhgqtidjq
g dkidjx ixnqrdidxidjqixdjqtixnoqtrixcidjhrirjhs—nhgxnrilogixtsjlor,
blokixcidjqb—logidjldihcinqidxxilv oglodekitqnltgidjqielvxtrixcidjhr
kx ouiblo,inqiblkivqidlyhouidjqivtqlgictxbidjxrqinhgxnrilogidjxrq
xtsjlormiDjqirq.qoij ogtqgilogirq.qodk-rq.qodjielk,iAlsdlhoiSqequm”

“Djx iVheglg!”itxltqgiSqequ,irdltdhoui silogiaelddqthouilvx didjq
alvhomi“Velrdikq,iAlsdlhoiVheglg,ihciHijlgicxeexnqgidjkilg.haqihoidjqrq
blddqtr,iHinx egilcxtqioxnijlgiliaxorahqoaqidxie uilvx didjldinx egivq
jql.kiqox ujidxicx ogqtidjqieltuqrdirjhsidjldiq.qtirlheqgitx ogiAlsq
Jxtom”

“AlsdlhoiSqequ,”irlhgiVheglgirdqlghek,i“djkiaxorahqoaqiblkivqigtlnhou
dqoihoajqrixcinldqt,ixtidqoicldjxbr,iHialo’didqee;iv dilridjx iltd
rdheeiloihbsqohdqodiblo,iAlsdlhoiSqequ,iHiutqldekicqltieqrdidjk
axorahqoaqivqiv dilieqlykixoq;iloginheeihoidjqiqogirhoyidjqqicx ogqthou
gxnoidxidjqichqtkishd,iAlsdlhoiSqequm”

“Chqtkishd!ichqtkishd!ikqihor edibq,iblo;islrdileeiold tleivqlthou,ikq
hor edibqmiHd’riloilee-chtqgix dtluqidxidqeeilokij bloiatqld tqidjld
jq’rivx ogidxijqeemiCe yqrilogicelbqr!iVheglg,irlkidjldilulhoidxibq,
logirdltdibkirx e-vxedr,iv diH’ee—H’ee—kqr,iH’eeirnleexnilieh.qiuxld
nhdjileeijhrijlhtilogijxtorixomiX dixcidjqialvho,ikqialodhou,
gtlv-axex tqgirxoixcilinxxgqoiu o—lirdtlhujdinlyqinhdjikq!”

Lrijqidj ogqtqgix didjhrijqiblgqilit rjildiVheglg,iv dinhdjil
blt.qeex rixvehz q,irehghouiaqeqthdk,iVheglgicxtidjldidhbqiqe gqgijhbm

Leltbqgildidjhridqtthveqix dv trdivqdnqqoidjqidnxisthoahsleilog
tqrsxorhveqixnoqtrixcidjqirjhs,ilogicqqehouijlecilibhogidxiuh.qi silee
hgqlixcirlhehouihoili.qrrqeirxiz qrdhxolvekixnoqgilogidqbsxtlthek
axbblogqg,iHirdqssqgilrhgqictxbidjqigxxtidxiuh.qiqutqrridxiVheglg,injx,
Hiblgqioxigx vd,inlrileeiqluqtoqrridxi.lohrjictxbivqcxtqidjqilnlyqoqg
ntldjixciSqequmiV didxibkilrdxohrjbqod,ijqirldigxnoilulhoixoidjq
dtlorxbi.qtkiz hqdek,ilogirqqbqgidxijl.qioxdidjqirehujdqrdihodqodhxoixc
nhdjgtlnhoumiJqirqqbqgiz hdqi rqgidxihbsqohdqodiSqequilogijhrinlkrmiLr
cxtiSqequ,ilcdqtieqddhouixccijhritluqilrijqijlg,idjqtqirqqbqgioxibxtq
eqcdihoijhb,ilogijq,idxx,irldigxnoiehyqilielbv,idjx ujijqidnhdajqgil
ehddeqilrihcirdheeioqt.x rekiluhdldqgmi“Njqn!”ijqinjhrdeqgildielrd—“djq
rz lee’riuxoqixccidxieqqnltg,iHidjhoymiVheglg,idjx i rqgidxivqiuxxgild
rjltsqohouilieloaq,ibqogidjldisqo,inheeikqmiBkiflay-yohcqijqtqioqqgr
djqiuthogrdxoqmiDjld’rijq;idjloyikq,iVheglgmiOxnidjqo,ibkikx ouiblo,
Hrjblqe’ridjkiolbq,ighgo’dikqirlk?iNqeeidjqo,igxnoikqiuxijqtq,iHrjblqe,
cxtidjqidjtqqij ogtqgdjielkm”

“AlsdlhoiSqequ,”irlhgiH,i“Hijl.qilicthqoginhdjibqinjxinlodridxirjhs
dxx—rjleeiHivthouijhbigxnoidx-bxttxn?”

“Dxivqir tq,”irlhgiSqequmi“Cqdajijhbilexou,iloginq’eeiexxyildijhbm”

“Njldielkigxqrijqinlod?”iutxloqgiVheglg,iueloahoui sictxbidjqivxxyiho
njhajijqijlgilulhoivqqoiv tkhouijhbrqecm

“Xj!ioq.qtidjqqibhogilvx didjld,iVheglg,”irlhgiSqequmi“Jlrijqiq.qt
njleqgihdilok?”id tohouidxibqm

“YheeqgibxtqinjleqridjloiHialoiax od,iAlsdlhoiSqequm”

“Nqee,ivthouijhbilexouidjqom”

Log,ilcdqtirhuohouidjqislsqtr,ixcciHinqod;ioxdjhouigx vdhouiv didjldiH
jlgigxoqiliuxxgibxtohou’rinxty,ilogidjldidjqiSqz xginlridjqihgqodhale
rjhsidjldiKxfxijlgistx.hgqgidxialttkiZ qqz quilogibqitx ogidjqiAlsqm

V diHijlgioxdistxaqqgqgiclt,injqoiHivquloidxivqdjhoyibqidjldidjq
AlsdlhoinhdjinjxbiHinlridxirlheikqditqblhoqgi orqqoivkibq;idjx uj,
hogqqg,ihoiblokialrqr,ilinjleq-rjhsinheeivqiaxbseqdqekichddqgix d,ilog
tqaqh.qileeijqtiatqnixoivxltg,iqtqidjqialsdlhoiblyqrijhbrqeci.hrhveqivk
ltth.houidxidlyqiaxbblog;icxtirxbqdhbqridjqrqi.xkluqriltqirxistxexouqg,
logidjqirjxtqihodqt.lerildijxbqirxiqpaqqghouekivthqc,idjldihcidjq
alsdlhoijl.qiliclbhek,ixtilokilvrxtvhouiaxoaqtobqodixcidjldirxtd,ijq
gxqrioxdidtx veqijhbrqecib ajilvx dijhrirjhsihoisxtd,iv dieql.qrijqtidx
djqixnoqtridheeileeihritqlgkicxtirqlmiJxnq.qt,ihdihrilenlkrilrinqeeidx
jl.qiliexxyildijhbivqcxtqihttq.xalvekiaxbbhddhouikx trqecihodxijhr
jlogrmiD tohouivlayiHilaaxrdqgiAlsdlhoiSqequ,ihoz hthouinjqtqiAlsdlho
Ljlvinlridxivqicx ogm

“Loginjldigxrdidjx inlodixciAlsdlhoiLjlv?iHd’rileeithujdiqox uj;idjx 
ltdirjhssqgm”

“Kqr,iv diHirjx egiehyqidxirqqijhbm”

“V diHigxo’didjhoyidjx inhedivqilveqidxildistqrqodmiHigxo’diyoxn
qpladekinjld’ridjqiblddqtinhdjijhb;iv dijqiyqqsriaexrqihorhgqidjq
jx rq;ilirxtdixcirhay,ilogikqdijqigxo’diexxyirxmiHoiclad,ijqilho’d
rhay;iv diox,ijqihro’dinqeeiqhdjqtmiLokijxn,ikx ouiblo,ijqinxo’dilenlkr
rqqibq,irxiHigxo’dir ssxrqijqinheeidjqqmiJq’riliz qqtiblo,iAlsdlho
Ljlv—rxirxbqidjhoy—v diliuxxgixoqmiXj,idjx ’ediehyqijhbinqeeiqox uj;iox
cqlt,ioxicqltmiJq’riliutlog,i ouxgek,iuxg-ehyqiblo,iAlsdlhoiLjlv;
gxqro’dirsqlyib aj;iv d,injqoijqigxqrirsqly,idjqoikx iblkinqeeiehrdqom
Bltyikq,ivqicxtqnltoqg;iLjlv’rilvx.qidjqiaxbbxo;iLjlv’rivqqoiho
axeequqr,ilrinqeeilri’bxouidjqialoohvler;ivqqoi rqgidxigqqsqtinxogqtr
djloidjqinl.qr;ichpqgijhrichqtkieloaqihoibhujdhqt,irdtlouqticxqridjlo
njleqrmiJhrieloaq!ilkq,idjqiyqqoqrdilogidjqir tqrdidjldix dixcileeix t
hreq!iXj!ijqilho’diAlsdlhoiVheglg;iox,ilogijqilho’diAlsdlhoiSqequ;
_jq’riLjlv_,ivxk;ilogiLjlvixcixeg,idjx iyoxnqrd,inlriliatxnoqgiyhou!”

“Logili.qtki.heqixoqmiNjqoidjldinhayqgiyhouinlrirelho,idjqigxur,ighg
djqkioxdiehayijhrivexxg?”

“Axbqijhdjqtidxibq—jhdjqt,ijhdjqt,”irlhgiSqequ,inhdjilirhuohchaloaqiho
jhriqkqidjldilebxrdirdltdeqgibqmi“Exxyikq,ielg;ioq.qtirlkidjldixoivxltg
djqiSqz xgmiOq.qtirlkihdiloknjqtqmiAlsdlhoiLjlvighgioxdiolbqijhbrqecm
’Dnlrilicxxehrj,ihuoxtlodinjhbixcijhriatlwk,inhgxnqgibxdjqt,injxighqg
njqoijqinlrixoekilidnqe.qbxodjixegmiLogikqdidjqixegirz lniDhrdhu,ild
Ulkjqlg,irlhgidjldidjqiolbqinx egirxbqjxnistx.qistxsjqdhamiLog,
sqtjlsr,ixdjqticxxeriehyqijqtiblkidqeeidjqqidjqirlbqmiHinhrjidxinlto
djqqmiHd’riliehqmiHiyoxniAlsdlhoiLjlvinqee;iH’.qirlheqginhdjijhbilr
bldqikqltrilux;iHiyoxninjldijqihr—liuxxgiblo—oxdilishx r,iuxxgiblo,
ehyqiVheglg,iv dilirnqlthouiuxxgiblo—rxbqdjhouiehyqibq—xoekidjqtq’ril
uxxgigqleibxtqixcijhbmiLkq,ilkq,iHiyoxnidjldijqinlrioq.qti.qtkifxeek;
logiHiyoxnidjldixoidjqislrrluqijxbq,ijqinlriliehddeqix dixcijhribhog
cxtilirsqee;iv dihdinlridjqirjltsirjxxdhouislhorihoijhriveqqghouird bs
djldivtx ujdidjldilvx d,ilrilokixoqibhujdirqqmiHiyoxn,idxx,idjldiq.qt
rhoaqijqiexrdijhriequielrdi.xkluqivkidjldilaa trqginjleq,ijq’rivqqoil
yhogixcibxxgk—gqrsqtldqibxxgk,ilogirl.luqirxbqdhbqr;iv didjldinheeilee
slrrixccmiLogixoaqicxtilee,ieqdibqidqeeidjqqilogilrr tqidjqq,ikx ou
blo,ihd’rivqddqtidxirlheinhdjilibxxgkiuxxgialsdlhoidjloiliel ujhouivlg
xoqmiRxiuxxg-vkqidxidjqq—logintxouioxdiAlsdlhoiLjlv,ivqal rqijqijlssqor
dxijl.qilinhayqgiolbqmiVqrhgqr,ibkivxk,ijqijlrilinhcq—oxdidjtqqi.xkluqr
nqggqg—lirnqqd,itqrhuoqgiuhtemiDjhoyixcidjld;ivkidjldirnqqdiuhteidjld
xegibloijlriliajheg:ijxegikqidjqoidjqtqialoivqiloki ddqt,ijxsqeqrrijltb
hoiLjlv?iOx,iox,ibkielg;irdthayqo,ivelrdqg,ihcijqivq,iLjlvijlrijhr
j blohdhqr!”

LriHinleyqgilnlk,iHinlric eeixcidjx ujdc eoqrr;injldijlgivqqo
hoahgqodleekitq.qleqgidxibqixciAlsdlhoiLjlv,icheeqgibqinhdjiliaqtdlho
nhegi.lu qoqrrixcislhoc eoqrriaxoaqtohouijhbmiLogirxbqjxn,ildidjqidhbq,
Hicqedilirkbsldjkilogilirxttxnicxtijhb,iv dicxtiHigxo’diyoxninjld,
 oeqrrihdinlridjqiat qeiexrrixcijhriequmiLogikqdiHilerxicqedilirdtlouq
lnqixcijhb;iv didjldirxtdixcilnq,injhajiHialooxdildileeigqrathvq,inlr
oxdiqpladekilnq;iHigxioxdiyoxninjldihdinlrmiV diHicqedihd;ilogihdighg
oxdighrhoaehoqibqidxnltgrijhb;idjx ujiHicqedihbsldhqoaqildinjldirqqbqg
ehyqibkrdqtkihoijhb,irxihbsqtcqadekilrijqinlriyoxnoidxibqidjqom
Jxnq.qt,ibkidjx ujdrinqtqildieqoudjialtthqgihoixdjqtightqadhxor,irx
djldicxtidjqistqrqodigltyiLjlvirehssqgibkibhogm


AJLSDQTi17miDjqiTlblglom

LriZ qqz qu’riTlblglo,ixtiClrdhouilogiJ bhehldhxo,inlridxiaxodho qilee
glk,iHighgioxdiajxxrqidxighrd tvijhbidheeidxnltgriohujd-clee;icxtiH
ajqthrjidjqiutqldqrditqrsqadidxnltgriq.qtkvxgk’ritqehuhx rixvehuldhxor,
oq.qtibhogijxniaxbhale,ilogiax egioxdichogihdihoibkijqltdidxi ogqt.le q
q.qoiliaxoutquldhxoixcilodrinxtrjhsshouilidxlg-rdxxe;ixtidjxrqixdjqt
atqld tqrihoiaqtdlhoisltdrixcix tiqltdj,injxinhdjiligqutqqixc
cxxdblohrbiz hdqi ostqaqgqodqgihoixdjqtiseloqdr,ivxnigxnoivqcxtqidjq
dxtrxixciligqaqlrqgielogqgistxsthqdxtibqtqekixoilaax odixcidjq
hoxtgholdqisxrrqrrhxorikqdixnoqgilogitqodqgihoijhriolbqm

Hirlk,inqiuxxgiStqrvkdqthloiAjthrdhlorirjx egivqiajlthdlveqihoidjqrq
djhour,ilogioxdicloakix trqe.qrirxi.lrdekir sqthxtidxixdjqtibxtdler,
sluloriloginjldioxd,ivqal rqixcidjqhtijlec-atlwkiaxoaqhdrixoidjqrq
r vfqadrmiDjqtqinlriZ qqz qu,ioxn,iaqtdlhoekiqodqtdlhohouidjqibxrd
lvr tgioxdhxorilvx diKxfxilogijhriTlblglo;—v dinjldixcidjld?iZ qqz qu
djx ujdijqiyoqninjldijqinlrilvx d,iHir ssxrq;ijqirqqbqgidxivqiaxodqod;
logidjqtqieqdijhbitqrdmiLeeix tiltu houinhdjijhbinx egioxdil.lhe;ieqd
jhbivq,iHirlk:ilogiJql.qoijl.qibqtakixoi rilee—StqrvkdqthlorilogiSlulor
lehyq—cxtinqiltqileeirxbqjxnigtqlgc eekiatlayqgilvx didjqijqlg,ilog
rlgekioqqgibqoghoum

Dxnltgriq.qohou,injqoiHicqedilrr tqgidjldileeijhrisqtcxtbloaqrilog
thd lerib rdivqix.qt,iHinqodi sidxijhritxxbilogiyoxayqgildidjqigxxt;
v dioxilornqtmiHidthqgidxixsqoihd,iv dihdinlriclrdqoqgihorhgqm
“Z qqz qu,”irlhgiHirxcdekidjtx ujidjqiyqk-jxeq:—leeirheqodmi“Hirlk,
Z qqz qu!injkigxo’dikx irsqly?iHd’riH—Hrjblqem”iV dileeitqblhoqgirdhee
lrivqcxtqmiHivquloidxiutxnileltbqgmiHijlgileexnqgijhbir ajilv oglod
dhbq;iHidjx ujdijqibhujdijl.qijlgiloilsxseqadhaichdmiHiexxyqgidjtx uj
djqiyqk-jxeq;iv didjqigxxtixsqohouihodxiloixggiaxtoqtixcidjqitxxb,idjq
yqk-jxeqistxrsqadinlriv diliatxxyqgilogirhohrdqtixoqmiHiax egixoekirqq
sltdixcidjqicxxd-vxltgixcidjqivqgilogiliehoqixcidjqinlee,iv dioxdjhou
bxtqmiHinlrir tsthrqgidxivqjxegitqrdhouilulhordidjqinleeidjqinxxgqo
rjlcdixciZ qqz qu’rijltsxxo,injhajidjqielogelgkidjqiq.qohouistq.hx r
jlgidlyqoictxbijhb,ivqcxtqix tibx odhouidxidjqiajlbvqtmiDjld’rirdtlouq,
djx ujdiH;iv dildilokitldq,irhoaqidjqijltsxxoirdlogrikxogqt,ilogijq
rqegxbixtioq.qtiuxqrilvtxlginhdjx dihd,idjqtqcxtqijqib rdivqihorhgq
jqtq,ilogioxisxrrhveqibhrdlyqm

“Z qqz qu!—Z qqz qu!”—leeirdheemiRxbqdjhouib rdijl.qijlssqoqgm
Lsxseqpk!iHidthqgidxiv trdixsqoidjqigxxt;iv dihdird vvxtoekitqrhrdqgm
T oohouigxnoirdlhtr,iHiz hayekirdldqgibkir rshahxoridxidjqichtrdisqtrxo
Hibqd—djqiajlbvqt-blhgmi“El!iel!”irjqiathqg,i“Hidjx ujdirxbqdjhouib rd
vqidjqiblddqtmiHinqodidxiblyqidjqivqgilcdqtivtqlyclrd,ilogidjqigxxtinlr
exayqg;ilogioxdilibx rqidxivqijqltg;ilogihd’rivqqoif rdirxirheqodiq.qt
rhoaqmiV diHidjx ujd,iblkivq,ikx ijlgivxdjiuxoqixccilogiexayqgikx t
vluuluqihoicxtirlcqiyqqshoumiEl!iel,ibl’lb!—Bhrdtqrr!ib tgqt!iBtrm
J rrqk!ilsxseqpk!”—loginhdjidjqrqiathqr,irjqitloidxnltgridjqiyhdajqo,iH
cxeexnhoum

BtrmiJ rrqkirxxoilssqltqg,inhdjilib rdltg-sxdihoixoqijlogilogil
.hoqult-at qdihoidjqixdjqt,ijl.houif rdivtxyqoilnlkictxbidjqixaa sldhxo
xcilddqoghouidxidjqialrdxtr,ilogiraxeghouijqtiehddeqivelayivxk
bqlodhbqm

“Nxxg-jx rq!”iathqgiH,i“njhajinlkidxihd?iT oicxtiUxg’rirlyq,ilogicqdaj
rxbqdjhouidxistkixsqoidjqigxxt—djqilpq!—djqilpq!ijq’rijlgilirdtxyq;
gqsqogi sxoihd!”—logirxirlkhouiHinlri obqdjxghaleekit rjhoui sirdlhtr
lulhoiqbsdk-jlogqg,injqoiBtrmiJ rrqkihodqtsxrqgidjqib rdltg-sxdilog
.hoqult-at qd,ilogidjqiqodhtqialrdxtixcijqtiax odqoloaqm

“Njld’ridjqiblddqtinhdjikx ,ikx ouiblo?”

“Uqdidjqilpq!iCxtiUxg’rirlyq,it oicxtidjqigxadxt,irxbqixoq,injheqiHistk
hdixsqo!”

“Exxyijqtq,”irlhgidjqielogelgk,iz hayekis ddhouigxnoidjqi.hoqult-at qd,
rxilridxijl.qixoqijlogictqq;i“exxyijqtq;iltqikx idleyhouilvx distkhou
xsqoilokixcibkigxxtr?”—loginhdjidjldirjqirqhwqgibkiltbmi“Njld’ridjq
blddqtinhdjikx ?iNjld’ridjqiblddqtinhdjikx ,irjhsbldq?”

Hoilrialeb,iv ditlshgiliblooqtilrisxrrhveq,iHiul.qijqtidxi ogqtrdlog
djqinjxeqialrqmi oaxorahx rekiaelsshouidjqi.hoqult-at qdidxixoqirhgqixc
jqtioxrq,irjqit bholdqgicxtiloihordlod;idjqoiqpaelhbqg—“Ox!iHijl.qo’d
rqqoihdirhoaqiHis dihdidjqtqm”iT oohouidxiliehddeqiaexrqdi ogqtidjq
eloghouixcidjqirdlhtr,irjqiueloaqgiho,ilogitqd tohou,idxegibqidjld
Z qqz qu’rijltsxxoinlribhrrhoumi“Jq’riyheeqgijhbrqec,”irjqiathqgmi“Hd’r
 ocxtd’oldqiRdhuurigxoqix.qtilulho—djqtqiuxqriloxdjqtiax odqtsloq—Uxg
shdkijhrisxxtibxdjqt!—hdinheeivqidjqit hoixcibkijx rqmiJlridjqisxxtielg
lirhrdqt?iNjqtq’ridjldiuhte?—djqtq,iVqddk,iuxidxiRolteqridjqiSlhodqt,
logidqeeijhbidxislhodibqilirhuo,inhdj—“oxir hahgqrisqtbhddqgijqtq,ilog
oxirbxyhouihoidjqisltext;”—bhujdilrinqeeiyheeivxdjivhtgrildixoaqmiYhee?
DjqiExtgivqibqtahc eidxijhriujxrd!iNjld’ridjldioxhrqidjqtq?iKx ,ikx ou
blo,il.lrdidjqtq!”

Logit oohoui silcdqtibq,irjqial ujdibqilriHinlrilulhoidtkhouidxicxtaq
xsqoidjqigxxtm

“Higxo’dileexnihd;iHinxo’dijl.qibkistqbhrqrirsxheqgmiUxicxtidjq
exayrbhdj,idjqtq’rixoqilvx dilibheqictxbijqtqmiV dil.lrd!”is ddhouijqt
jlogihoijqtirhgq-sxayqd,i“jqtq’riliyqkidjld’eeichd,iHiu qrr;ieqd’r
rqqm”iLoginhdjidjld,irjqid toqgihdihoidjqiexay;iv d,ilelr!iZ qqz qu’r
r sseqbqodleivxeditqblhoqgi onhdjgtlnoinhdjhom

“Jl.qidxiv trdihdixsqo,”irlhgiH,iloginlrit oohouigxnoidjqiqodtkil
ehddeq,icxtiliuxxgirdltd,injqoidjqielogelgkial ujdildibq,ilulhoi.xnhou
Hirjx egioxdivtqlyigxnoijqtistqbhrqr;iv diHidxtqictxbijqt,iloginhdjil
r ggqoivxghekit rjiglrjqgibkrqecic eeilulhordidjqibltym

Nhdjilistxghuhx rioxhrqidjqigxxticeqnixsqo,ilogidjqiyoxvirelbbhou
lulhordidjqinlee,irqodidjqiselrdqtidxidjqiaqhehou;ilogidjqtq,iuxxg
jql.qor!idjqtqirldiZ qqz qu,iledxuqdjqtiaxxeilogirqec-axeeqadqg;ithujd
hoidjqibhggeqixcidjqitxxb;irz lddhouixoijhrijlbr,ilogijxeghouiKxfxixo
dxsixcijhrijqlgmiJqiexxyqgioqhdjqtixoqinlkioxtidjqixdjqtinlk,iv dirld
ehyqilialt.qgihbluqinhdjiraltaqilirhuoixciladh.qiehcqm

“Z qqz qu,”irlhgiH,iuxhoui sidxijhb,i“Z qqz qu,injld’ridjqiblddqtinhdj
kx ?”

“Jqijlho’divqqoilirhddho’irxileeiglk,ijlrijq?”irlhgidjqielogelgkm

V dileeinqirlhg,ioxdilinxtgiax eginqigtluix dixcijhb;iHilebxrdicqed
ehyqis rjhouijhbix.qt,irxilridxiajlouqijhrisxrhdhxo,icxtihdinlrilebxrd
hodxeqtlveq,ihdirqqbqgirxislhoc eekilogi oold tleekiaxordtlhoqg;
qrsqahleek,ilrihoileeistxvlvhehdkijqijlgivqqoirhddhouirxicxti snltgrixc
qhujdixtidqoijx tr,iuxhouidxxinhdjx dijhritqu eltibqlerm

“BtrmiJ rrqk,”irlhgiH,i“jq’ri_leh.q_ildileeiq.qodr;irxieql.qi r,ihcikx 
seqlrq,ilogiHinheeirqqidxidjhrirdtlouqilcclhtibkrqecm”

Aexrhouidjqigxxti sxoidjqielogelgk,iHiqogql.xtqgidxistq.lhei sxo
Z qqz quidxidlyqiliajlht;iv dihoi.lhomiDjqtqijqirld;ilogileeijqiax eg
gx—cxtileeibkisxehdqiltdrilogiveloghrjbqodr—jqinx egioxdibx.qilisqu,
oxtirlkilirhoueqinxtg,ioxtiq.qoiexxyildibq,ioxtioxdhaqibkistqrqoaqiho
djqirehujdqrdinlkm

Hinxogqt,idjx ujdiH,ihcidjhrialoisxrrhvekivqilisltdixcijhriTlblglo;igx
djqkiclrdixoidjqhtijlbridjldinlkihoijhrioldh.qihrelogmiHdib rdivqirx;
kqr,ihd’risltdixcijhriatqqg,iHir ssxrq;inqee,idjqo,ieqdijhbitqrd;ijq’ee
uqdi sirxxoqtixtieldqt,ioxigx vdmiHdialo’dielrdicxtiq.qt,idjloyiUxg,
logijhriTlblgloixoekiaxbqrixoaqilikqlt;ilogiHigxo’divqehq.qihd’ri.qtk
s oad leidjqom

Hinqodigxnoidxir ssqtmiLcdqtirhddhouiliexouidhbqiehrdqohouidxidjqiexou
rdxthqrixcirxbqirlhextrinjxijlgif rdiaxbqictxbilise b-s gghoui.xkluq,
lridjqkialeeqgihdi(djldihr,ilirjxtdinjlehou-.xkluqihoilirajxxoqtixt
vthu,iaxochoqgidxidjqioxtdjixcidjqiehoq,ihoidjqiLdelodhaiXaqloixoek);
lcdqtiehrdqohouidxidjqrqise b-s gghouqtridheeioqltekiqeq.qoix’aexay,iH
nqodi sirdlhtridxiuxidxivqg,icqqehouiz hdqir tqivkidjhridhbqiZ qqz qu
b rdiaqtdlhoekijl.qivtx ujdijhriTlblgloidxilidqtbholdhxomiV diox;idjqtq
jqinlrif rdinjqtqiHijlgieqcdijhb;ijqijlgioxdirdhttqgiloihoajmiHivqulo
dxiutxni.qpqginhdjijhb;ihdirqqbqgirxigxnothujdirqorqeqrrilogihorloqidx
vqirhddhouidjqtqileeiglkilogijlecidjqiohujdixoijhrijlbrihoiliaxegitxxb,
jxeghouilishqaqixcinxxgixoijhrijqlgm

“Cxtijql.qo’rirlyq,iZ qqz qu,iuqdi silogirjlyqikx trqec;iuqdi silog
jl.qirxbqir ssqtmiKx ’eeirdlt.q;ikx ’eeiyheeikx trqec,iZ qqz qum”iV d
oxdilinxtgighgijqitqsekm

Gqrslhthouixcijhb,idjqtqcxtq,iHigqdqtbhoqgidxiuxidxivqgilogidxireqqs;
logioxigx vd,ivqcxtqiliutqldinjheq,ijqinx egicxeexnibqmiV distq.hx ridx
d tohouiho,iHidxxyibkijql.kivqltryhoiflayqd,ilogidjtqnihdix.qtijhb,ilr
hdistxbhrqgidxivqili.qtkiaxegiohujd;ilogijqijlgioxdjhouiv dijhr
xtgholtkitx ogiflayqdixomiCxtirxbqidhbq,igxileeiHinx eg,iHiax egioxd
uqdihodxidjqiclhodqrdigxwqmiHijlgivexnoix didjqialogeq;ilogidjqibqtq
djx ujdixciZ qqz qu—oxdicx ticqqdixcc—rhddhouidjqtqihoidjldi oqlrk
sxrhdhxo,irdltyilexoqihoidjqiaxegilogiglty;idjhriblgqibqitqleek
ntqdajqgmiDjhoyixcihd;ireqqshouileeiohujdihoidjqirlbqitxxbinhdjilinhgq
lnlyqisluloixoijhrijlbrihoidjhrigtqltk,i olaax odlveqiTlblglo!

V dirxbqjxniHigtxssqgixccildielrd,ilogiyoqnioxdjhouibxtqidheeivtqlyixc
glk;injqo,iexxyhouix.qtidjqivqgrhgq,idjqtqirz lddqgiZ qqz qu,ilrihcijq
jlgivqqoiratqnqgigxnoidxidjqicexxtmiV dilrirxxoilridjqichtrdiuehbsrqixc
r oiqodqtqgidjqinhogxn,i sijqiuxd,inhdjirdhccilogiutldhouifxhodr,iv d
nhdjiliajqqtc eiexxy;iehbsqgidxnltgribqinjqtqiHielk;istqrrqgijhr
cxtqjqlgilulhoilulhordibhoq;ilogirlhgijhriTlblgloinlrix.qtm

Oxn,ilriHivqcxtqijhodqg,iHijl.qioxixvfqadhxoidxilokisqtrxo’ritqehuhxo,
vqihdinjldihdiblk,irxiexouilridjldisqtrxoigxqrioxdiyheeixtihor edilok
xdjqtisqtrxo,ivqal rqidjldixdjqtisqtrxoigxo’divqehq.qihdilerxmiV dinjqo
liblo’ritqehuhxoivqaxbqritqleekictlodha;injqoihdihrilisxrhdh.qidxtbqod
dxijhb;ilog,ihoichoq,iblyqridjhriqltdjixcix triloi oaxbcxtdlveqihooidx
exguqiho;idjqoiHidjhoyihdijhujidhbqidxidlyqidjldihogh.hg leilrhgqilog
ltu qidjqisxhodinhdjijhbm

Logif rdirxiHioxnighginhdjiZ qqz qumi“Z qqz qu,”irlhgiH,i“uqdihodxivqg
oxn,ilogiehqilogiehrdqoidxibqm”iHidjqoinqodixo,ivquhoohouinhdjidjqithrq
logistxutqrrixcidjqisthbhdh.qitqehuhxor,ilogiaxbhouigxnoidxidjqi.lthx r
tqehuhxorixcidjqistqrqodidhbq,ig thouinjhajidhbqiHielvxtqgidxirjxn
Z qqz quidjldileeidjqrqiEqodr,iTlblglor,ilogistxexouqgijlb-rz lddhour
hoiaxeg,iajqqteqrritxxbrinqtqirdltyioxorqorq;ivlgicxtidjqijqledj;
 rqeqrricxtidjqirx e;ixssxrqg,ihoirjxtd,idxidjqixv.hx rielnrixciJkuhqoq
logiaxbbxoirqorqmiHidxegijhb,idxx,idjldijqivqhouihoixdjqtidjhourir aj
loiqpdtqbqekirqorhveqilogirlulahx rirl.luq,ihdislhoqgibq,i.qtkivlgek
slhoqgibq,idxirqqijhbioxnirxigqsextlvekicxxehrjilvx didjhrithgha ex r
TlblgloixcijhrmiVqrhgqr,iltu qgiH,iclrdhouiblyqridjqivxgkial.qiho;
jqoaqidjqirshthdial.qriho;ilogileeidjx ujdrivxtoixciliclrdib rd
oqaqrrlthekivqijlec-rdlt.qgmiDjhrihridjqitqlrxoinjkibxrdigkrsqsdha
tqehuhxohrdriajqthrjir ajibqeloajxekioxdhxorilvx didjqhtijqtqlcdqtrmiHo
xoqinxtg,iZ qqz qu,irlhgiH,itldjqtighutqrrh.qek;ijqeeihriloihgqlichtrd
vxtoixoiloi oghuqrdqgilsseq-g bsehou;ilogirhoaqidjqoisqtsqd ldqg
djtx ujidjqijqtqghdltkigkrsqsrhlrio td tqgivkiTlblglorm

HidjqoilryqgiZ qqz quinjqdjqtijqijhbrqecinlriq.qtidtx veqginhdj
gkrsqsrhl;iqpstqrrhouidjqihgqli.qtkiselhoek,irxidjldijqiax egidlyqihd
homiJqirlhgiox;ixoeki sxoixoqibqbxtlveqixaalrhxomiHdinlrilcdqtiliutqld
cqlrdiuh.qoivkijhricldjqtidjqiyhou,ixoidjqiulhohouixciliutqldivlddeq
njqtqhoichcdkixcidjqiqoqbkijlgivqqoiyheeqgivkilvx didnxix’aexayihoidjq
lcdqtoxxo,ilogileeiaxxyqgilogiqldqoidjldi.qtkiq.qohoum

“Oxibxtq,iZ qqz qu,”irlhgiH,irj ggqthou;i“djldinheeigx;”icxtiHiyoqnidjq
hocqtqoaqrinhdjx dijhric tdjqtijhodhouidjqbmiHijlgirqqoilirlhextinjx
jlgi.hrhdqgidjldi.qtkihrelog,ilogijqidxegibqidjldihdinlridjqia rdxb,
njqoiliutqldivlddeqijlgivqqoiulhoqgidjqtq,idxivltvqa qileeidjqirelhoiho
djqikltgixtiultgqoixcidjqi.hadxt;ilogidjqo,ixoqivkixoq,idjqkinqtq
selaqgihoiutqldinxxgqoidtqoajqtr,ilogiultohrjqgitx ogiehyqilishel ,
nhdjivtqlgct hdilogiaxaxlo dr;iloginhdjirxbqisltreqkihoidjqhtibx djr,
nqtqirqoditx oginhdjidjqi.hadxt’riaxbsehbqodridxileeijhricthqogr,if rd
lridjx ujidjqrqistqrqodrinqtqirxiblokiAjthrdblrid tyqkrm

Lcdqtilee,iHigxioxdidjhoyidjldibkitqbltyrilvx ditqehuhxoiblgqib aj
hbstqrrhxoi sxoiZ qqz qumiVqal rq,ihoidjqichtrdiselaq,ijqirxbqjxn
rqqbqgig eeixcijqlthouixoidjldihbsxtdlodir vfqad,i oeqrriaxorhgqtqg
ctxbijhrixnoisxhodixci.hqn;ilog,ihoidjqirqaxogiselaq,ijqighgioxdibxtq
djloixoqidjhtgi ogqtrdlogibq,iax ajibkihgqlrirhbsekilriHinx eg;ilog,
choleek,ijqioxigx vdidjx ujdijqiyoqniliuxxgigqleibxtqilvx didjqidt q
tqehuhxoidjloiHighgmiJqiexxyqgildibqinhdjilirxtdixciaxogqraqoghou
axoaqtoilogiaxbslrrhxo,ilridjx ujijqidjx ujdihdiliutqldishdkidjldir aj
lirqorhveqikx ouibloirjx egivqirxijxsqeqrrekiexrdidxiq.louqehaleislulo
shqdkm

Ldielrdinqitxrqilogigtqrrqg;ilogiZ qqz qu,idlyhouilistxghuhx rekijqltdk
vtqlyclrdixciajxngqtrixcileeirxtdr,irxidjldidjqielogelgkirjx egioxd
blyqib ajistxchdivkitqlrxoixcijhriTlblglo,inqirleehqgix didxivxltgidjq
Sqz xg,irl odqthouilexou,ilogishayhouix tidqqdjinhdjijlehv divxoqrm


AJLSDQTi18miJhriBltym

Lrinqinqtqinleyhouigxnoidjqiqogixcidjqinjltcidxnltgridjqirjhs,iZ qqz qu
alttkhouijhrijltsxxo,iAlsdlhoiSqequihoijhriut cci.xhaqiex gekijlheqgi r
ctxbijhrinhunlb,irlkhouijqijlgioxdir rsqadqgibkicthqoginlrilialoohvle,
logic tdjqtbxtqiloox oahouidjldijqieqdioxialoohvlerixoivxltgidjld
atlcd,i oeqrridjqkistq.hx rekistxg aqgidjqhtislsqtrm

“Njldigxikx ibqloivkidjld,iAlsdlhoiSqequ?”irlhgiH,ioxnif bshouixoidjq
v enltyr,ilogieql.houibkiaxbtlgqirdloghouixoidjqinjltcm

“Hibqlo,”ijqitqsehqg,i“jqib rdirjxnijhrislsqtrm”

“Kqr,”irlhgiAlsdlhoiVheglgihoijhrijxeexni.xhaq,irdhayhouijhrijqlgictxb
vqjhogiSqequ’r,ix dixcidjqinhunlbmi“Jqib rdirjxnidjldijq’riaxo.qtdqgm
Rxoixcigltyoqrr,”ijqilggqg,id tohouidxiZ qqz qu,i“ltdidjx ildistqrqod
hoiaxbb ohxoinhdjilokiAjthrdhloiaj taj?”

“Njk,”irlhgiH,i“jq’rilibqbvqtixcidjqichtrdiAxoutquldhxoleiAj tajm”iJqtq
vqihdirlhg,idjldiblokidlddxxqgirl.luqrirlhehouihoiOlod ayqdirjhsrild
elrdiaxbqidxivqiaxo.qtdqgihodxidjqiaj tajqrm

“ChtrdiAxoutquldhxoleiAj taj,”iathqgiVheglg,i“njld!idjldinxtrjhsriho
GqlaxoiGq dqtxoxbkiAxeqblo’ribqqdhou-jx rq?”ilogirxirlkhou,idlyhouix d
jhrirsqadlaeqr,ijqit vvqgidjqbinhdjijhriutqldikqeexnivloglol
jlogyqtajhqc,ilogis ddhouidjqbixoi.qtkialtqc eek,ialbqix dixcidjq
nhunlb,ilogieqlohouirdhccekix.qtidjqiv enltyr,idxxyiliuxxgiexouiexxyild
Z qqz qum

“Jxniexouijldjijqivqqoilibqbvqt?”ijqidjqoirlhg,id tohouidxibq;i“oxd
.qtkiexou,iHitldjqtiu qrr,ikx ouiblom”

“Ox,”irlhgiSqequ,i“logijqijlro’divqqoivlsdhwqgithujdiqhdjqt,ixtihd
nx egijl.qinlrjqgirxbqixcidjldigq.he’rive qixccijhriclaqm”

“Gxidqee,ioxn,”iathqgiVheglg,i“hridjhriSjhehrdhoqilitqu eltibqbvqtixc
GqlaxoiGq dqtxoxbk’ribqqdhou?iHioq.qtirlnijhbiuxhouidjqtq,ilogiHislrr
hdiq.qtkiExtg’riglkm”

“Higxo’diyoxnilokdjhouilvx diGqlaxoiGq dqtxoxbkixtijhribqqdhou,”irlhg
H;i“leeiHiyoxnihr,idjldiZ qqz quijqtqihrilivxtoibqbvqtixcidjqiChtrd
AxoutquldhxoleiAj tajmiJqihriligqlaxoijhbrqec,iZ qqz quihrm”

“Kx ouiblo,”irlhgiVheglgirdqtoek,i“djx iltdirykeltyhouinhdjibq—qpselho
djkrqec,idjx ikx ouiJhddhdqmiNjldiaj tajigxrdidjqqibqlo?ilornqtibqm”

Choghouibkrqecidj rijltgis rjqg,iHitqsehqgmi“Hibqlo,irht,idjqirlbq
loahqodiAldjxehaiAj tajidxinjhajikx ilogiH,ilogiAlsdlhoiSqequidjqtq,
logiZ qqz quijqtq,ilogileeixci r,ilogiq.qtkibxdjqt’rirxoilogirx eixci r
vqexou;idjqiutqldilogiq.qtelrdhouiChtrdiAxoutquldhxoixcidjhrinjxeq
nxtrjhsshouinxteg;inqileeivqexouidxidjld;ixoekirxbqixci riajqthrjirxbq
z qqtiatxdajqdrioxinlkridx ajhouidjqiutlogivqehqc;ihoi_djld_inqilee
fxhoijlogrm”

“Rsehaq,idjx ibqlo’rdi_rsehaq_ijlogr,”iathqgiSqequ,igtlnhouioqltqtm
“Kx ouiblo,ikx ’givqddqtirjhsicxtilibhrrhxoltk,ihordqlgixcilicxtq-blrd
jlog;iHioq.qtijqltgilivqddqtirqtbxomiGqlaxoiGq dqtxoxbk—njkiCldjqt
Blsseqijhbrqeciax ego’divqldihd,ilogijq’ritqayxoqgirxbqdjhoumiAxbq
lvxltg,iaxbqilvxltg;ioq.qtibhogilvx didjqislsqtrmiHirlk,idqeeiZ xjxu
djqtq—njld’ridjldikx ialeeijhb?idqeeiZ xjxuidxirdqsilexoumiVkidjqiutqld
loajxt,injldilijltsxxoijq’riuxdidjqtq!iexxyriehyqiuxxgird ccidjld;ilog
jqijlogeqrihdilvx dithujdmiHirlk,iZ xjxu,ixtinjldq.qtikx tiolbqihr,ighg
kx iq.qtirdlogihoidjqijqlgixcilinjleq-vxld?ighgikx iq.qtirdthyqil
chrj?”

Nhdjx dirlkhouilinxtg,iZ qqz qu,ihoijhrinhegirxtdixcinlk,if bsqgi sxo
djqiv enltyr,ictxbidjqoaqihodxidjqivxnrixcixoqixcidjqinjleq-vxldr
jlouhouidxidjqirhgq;ilogidjqoivtlahouijhrieqcdiyoqq,ilogisxhrhouijhr
jltsxxo,iathqgix dihoirxbqir ajinlkilridjhr:—

“Als’lho,ikx irqqijhbirbleeigtxsidltixoinldqtigqtq?iKx irqqijhb?inqee,
rsxrqijhbixoqinjleqiqkq,inqee,igqo!”ilogidlyhouirjltsilhbildihd,ijq
gltdqgidjqihtxoithujdix.qtixegiVheglg’rivtxlgivthb,iaeqloilatxrridjq
rjhs’rigqayr,ilogirdt ayidjqiuehrdqohouidltirsxdix dixcirhujdm

“Oxn,”irlhgiZ qqz qu,iz hqdekijl ehouihoidjqiehoq,i“rsxr-qqijhbinjleq-q
qkq;injk,iglginjleqigqlgm”

“Z hay,iVheglg,”irlhgiSqequ,ijhrisltdoqt,injx,ilujlrdildidjqiaexrq
.hahohdkixcidjqicekhouijltsxxo,ijlgitqdtqldqgidxnltgridjqialvho
ulounlkmi“Z hay,iHirlk,ikx iVheglg,ilogiuqdidjqirjhs’rislsqtrmiNqib rd
jl.qiJqguqjxuidjqtq,iHibqloiZ xjxu,ihoixoqixcix tivxldrmiExxyikq,
Z xjxu,inq’eeiuh.qikqidjqiohoqdhqdjielk,ilogidjld’ribxtqidjloiq.qtinlr
uh.qoilijltsxxoqqtikqdix dixciOlod ayqdm”

Rxigxnoinqinqodihodxidjqialvho,ilogidxibkiutqldifxkiZ qqz quinlrirxxo
qotxeeqgilbxouidjqirlbqirjhs’riaxbslokidxinjhajiHibkrqecivqexouqgm

Njqoileeistqehbholthqrinqtqix.qtilogiSqequijlgiuxdiq.qtkdjhouitqlgkicxt
rhuohou,ijqid toqgidxibqilogirlhg,i“Hiu qrr,iZ xjxuidjqtqigxo’diyoxn
jxnidxinthdq,igxqrijq?iHirlk,iZ xjxu,ivelrdikq!igxrdidjx irhuoidjkiolbq
xtiblyqidjkiblty?”

V dildidjhriz qrdhxo,iZ qqz qu,injxijlgidnhaqixtidjthaqivqcxtqidlyqo
sltdihoirhbheltiaqtqbxohqr,iexxyqgioxinlkrilvlrjqg;iv didlyhouidjq
xccqtqgisqo,iaxshqgi sxoidjqislsqt,ihoidjqistxsqtiselaq,iloiqplad
ax odqtsltdixciliz qqtitx ogichu tqinjhajinlridlddxxqgi sxoijhriltb;irx
djldidjtx ujiAlsdlhoiSqequ’rixvrdholdqibhrdlyqidx ajhouijhr
lssqeeldh.q,ihdirdxxgirxbqdjhouiehyqidjhr:—

Z xjxumijhriPibltym

BqlonjheqiAlsdlhoiVheglgirldiqltoqrdekilogirdqlgclrdekiqkqhouiZ qqz qu,
logildielrdithrhouirxeqboekilogic bvehouihoidjqij uqisxayqdrixcijhr
vtxlg-ryhtdqgigtlviaxld,idxxyix diliv ogeqixcidtladr,ilogirqeqadhouixoq
qodhdeqgi“DjqiElddqtiGlkiAxbhou;ixtiOxiDhbqidxiExrq,”iselaqgihdiho
Z qqz qu’rijlogr,ilogidjqoiutlrshouidjqbilogidjqivxxyinhdjivxdjijhr,
exxyqgiqltoqrdekihodxijhriqkqr,ilogirlhg,i“Rxoixcigltyoqrr,iHib rdigx
bkig dkivkidjqq;iHilbisltdixnoqtixcidjhrirjhs,ilogicqqeiaxoaqtoqgicxt
djqirx erixcileeihdriatqn;ihcidjx irdheeiaehouqrdidxidjkiSluloinlkr,
njhajiHirlgekicqlt,iHivqrqqajidjqq,itqblhoioxdicxtilkqiliVqehle
vxogrblomiRs toidjqihgxeiVqee,ilogidjqijhgqx rigtluxo;id toictxbidjq
ntldjidxiaxbq;ibhogidjhoqiqkq,iHirlk;ixj!iuxxgoqrriutlahx r!irdqqt
aeqltixcidjqichqtkishd!”

RxbqdjhouixcidjqirledirqlikqdiehouqtqgihoixegiVheglg’rielou luq,
jqdqtxuqoqx rekibhpqginhdjiRathsd tleilogigxbqrdhaisjtlrqrm

“L.lrdidjqtq,il.lrdidjqtq,iVheglg,il.lrdioxnirsxhehouix tijltsxxoqqt,”
athqgiSqequmi“Shx rijltsxxoqqtrioq.qtiblyqiuxxgi.xkluqtr—hdidlyqridjq
rjltyix dixci’qb;ioxijltsxxoqqtihrinxtdjilirdtlninjxilhodistqddk
rjltyhrjmiDjqtqinlrikx ouiOldiRnlhoq,ixoaqidjqivtl.qrdivxld-jqlgqtix d
xcileeiOlod ayqdilogidjqi.hoqkltg;ijqifxhoqgidjqibqqdhou,ilogioq.qt
albqidxiuxxgmiJqiuxdirxicthujdqoqgilvx dijhriselu kirx e,idjldijq
rjthoyqgilogirjqqtqgilnlkictxbinjleqr,icxticqltixcilcdqt-aelsr,ihoialrq
jqiuxdirdx.qiloginqodidxiGl.kiFxoqrm”

“Sqequ!iSqequ!”irlhgiVheglg,iehcdhouijhriqkqrilogijlogr,i“djx idjkrqec,
lriHibkrqec,ijlrdirqqoiblokilisqthex ridhbq;idjx iyoxnqrd,iSqequ,injld
hdihridxijl.qidjqicqltixcigqldj;ijxn,idjqo,ialo’rdidjx istldqihoidjhr
 ouxgekiu hrqmiDjx ivqehqrdidjhoqixnoijqltd,iSqequmiDqeeibq,injqoidjhr
rlbqiSqz xgijqtqijlgijqtidjtqqiblrdrix.qtvxltgihoidjldidksjxxoixo
Flslo,idjldirlbqi.xkluqinjqoidjx inqodibldqinhdjiAlsdlhoiLjlv,ighg’rd
djx ioxdidjhoyixciGqldjilogidjqiF gubqodidjqo?”

“Jqltijhb,ijqltijhbioxn,”iathqgiSqequ,ibltajhouilatxrridjqialvho,ilog
djt rdhouijhrijlogricltigxnoihodxijhrisxayqdr,—“jqltijhb,ileeixcikqm
Djhoyixcidjld!iNjqoiq.qtkibxbqodinqidjx ujdidjqirjhsinx egirhoy!iGqldj
logidjqiF gubqodidjqo?iNjld?iNhdjileeidjtqqiblrdriblyhouir ajilo
q.qtelrdhouidj ogqthouilulhordidjqirhgq;ilogiq.qtkirqlivtqlyhouix.qt
 r,icxtqilogilcdmiDjhoyixciGqldjilogidjqiF gubqodidjqo?iOx!ioxidhbqidx
djhoyilvx diGqldjidjqomiEhcqinlrinjldiAlsdlhoiLjlvilogiHinlridjhoyhou
xc;ilogijxnidxirl.qileeijlogr—jxnidxithuif tk-blrdr—jxnidxiuqdihodxidjq
oqltqrdisxtd;idjldinlrinjldiHinlridjhoyhouixcm”

Vheglgirlhgioxibxtq,iv div ddxohoui sijhriaxld,irdleyqgixoigqay,injqtq
nqicxeexnqgijhbmiDjqtqijqirdxxg,i.qtkiz hqdekix.qtexxyhouirxbq
rlheblyqtrinjxinqtqibqoghouilidxs-rlheihoidjqinlhrdmiOxnilogidjqoijq
rdxxsqgidxishayi silisldaj,ixtirl.qiloiqogixcidlttqgidnhoq,injhaj
xdjqtnhrqibhujdijl.qivqqoinlrdqgm


AJLSDQTi19miDjqiStxsjqdm

“Rjhsbldqr,ijl.qikqirjhssqgihoidjldirjhs?”

Z qqz quilogiHijlgif rdieqcdidjqiSqz xg,iloginqtqirl odqthouilnlkictxb
djqinldqt,icxtidjqibxbqodiqlajixaa shqginhdjijhrixnoidjx ujdr,injqoidjq
lvx.qinxtgrinqtqis didxi rivkilirdtlouqt,injx,isl rhouivqcxtqi r,
eq.qeeqgijhriblrrh.qicxtqchouqtildidjqi.qrrqeihoiz qrdhxomiJqinlriv d
rjlvvhekilssltqeeqgihoiclgqgiflayqdilogisldajqgidtxnrqtr;ilitluixcil
velayijlogyqtajhqciho.qrdhouijhrioqaymiLiaxoce qodirblee-sxpijlgihoilee
ghtqadhxoricexnqgix.qtijhriclaq,ilogieqcdihdiehyqidjqiaxbsehaldqg
thvvqgivqgixcilidxttqod,injqoidjqit rjhouinldqtrijl.qivqqoigthqgi sm

“Jl.qikqirjhssqgihoijqt?”ijqitqsqldqgm

“Kx ibqloidjqirjhsiSqz xg,iHir ssxrq,”irlhgiH,idtkhouidxiulhoiliehddeq
bxtqidhbqicxtiloi ohodqtt sdqgiexxyildijhbm

“Lkq,idjqiSqz xg—djldirjhsidjqtq,”ijqirlhg,igtlnhouivlayijhrinjxeqiltb,
logidjqoitlshgekirjx.houihdirdtlhujdix dictxbijhb,inhdjidjqichpqg
vlkxoqdixcijhrisxhodqgichouqtigltdqgic eeildidjqixvfqadm

“Kqr,”irlhgiH,i“nqijl.qif rdirhuoqgidjqiltdhaeqrm”

“Lokdjhouigxnoidjqtqilvx dikx tirx er?”

“Lvx dinjld?”

“Xj,isqtjlsrikx ijl.’o’diuxdilok,”ijqirlhgiz hayekmi“Oxiblddqtidjx uj,
Hiyoxniblokiajlsridjldijl.’o’diuxdilok,—uxxgie ayidxi’qb;ilogidjqkiltq
leeidjqivqddqtixccicxtihdmiLirx e’rilirxtdixcilichcdjinjqqeidxil
nluxom”

“Njldiltqikx iflvvqthouilvx d,irjhsbldq?”irlhgiHm

“_Jq’r_iuxdiqox uj,idjx uj,idxiblyqi sicxtileeigqchahqoahqrixcidjld
rxtdihoixdjqtiajlsr,”ilvt sdekirlhgidjqirdtlouqt,iselahouilioqt.x r
qbsjlrhri sxoidjqinxtgi_jq_m

“Z qqz qu,”irlhgiH,i“eqd’riux;idjhricqeexnijlrivtxyqoiexxrqictxb
rxbqnjqtq;ijq’ridleyhouilvx dirxbqdjhouilogirxbqvxgkinqigxo’diyoxnm”

“Rdxs!”iathqgidjqirdtlouqtmi“Kqirlhgidt q—kqijl.’o’dirqqoiXegiDj ogqt
kqd,ijl.qikq?”

“Njx’riXegiDj ogqt?”irlhgiH,ilulhoith.qdqginhdjidjqihorloqiqltoqrdoqrr
xcijhriblooqtm

“AlsdlhoiLjlvm”

“Njld!idjqialsdlhoixcix tirjhs,idjqiSqz xg?”

“Lkq,ilbxouirxbqixci rixegirlhextiajlsr,ijqiuxqrivkidjldiolbqmiKq
jl.’o’dirqqoijhbikqd,ijl.qikq?”

“Ox,inqijl.’o’dmiJq’rirhayidjqkirlk,iv dihriuqddhouivqddqt,iloginheeivq
leeithujdilulhoivqcxtqiexoum”

“Leeithujdilulhoivqcxtqiexou!”iel ujqgidjqirdtlouqt,inhdjilirxeqboek
gqthrh.qirxtdixciel ujmi“Exxyikq;injqoiAlsdlhoiLjlvihrileeithujd,idjqo
djhrieqcdiltbixcibhoqinheeivqileeithujd;ioxdivqcxtqm”

“Njldigxikx iyoxnilvx dijhb?”

“Njldighgidjqki_dqee_ikx ilvx dijhb?iRlkidjld!”

“Djqkighgo’didqeeib ajixcilokdjhouilvx dijhb;ixoekiH’.qijqltgidjldijq’r
liuxxginjleq-j odqt,ilogiliuxxgialsdlhoidxijhriatqnm”

“Djld’ridt q,idjld’ridt q—kqr,ivxdjidt qiqox ujmiV dikx ib rdif bsinjqo
jqiuh.qriloixtgqtmiRdqsilogiutxne;iutxneilogiux—djld’ridjqinxtginhdj
AlsdlhoiLjlvmiV dioxdjhouilvx didjldidjhouidjldijlssqoqgidxijhbixcc
AlsqiJxto,iexouilux,injqoijqielkiehyqigqlgicxtidjtqqiglkrilogiohujdr;
oxdjhouilvx didjldigqlgekirythbbluqinhdjidjqiRslohltgilcxtqidjqiledlt
hoiRlodl?—jqltgioxdjhouilvx didjld,iqj?iOxdjhouilvx didjqirhe.qt
alelvlrjijqirsldihodx?iLogioxdjhouilvx dijhriexrhouijhriequielrd
.xkluq,ilaaxtghouidxidjqistxsjqakmiGhgo’dikqijqltilinxtgilvx didjqb
blddqtrilogirxbqdjhouibxtq,iqj?iOx,iHigxo’didjhoyikqighg;ijxniax egikq?
Njxiyoxnrihd?iOxdileeiOlod ayqd,iHiu qrrmiV dijxnr’q.qt,iblkjls,ikq’.q
jqltgidqeeilvx didjqiequ,ilogijxnijqiexrdihd;ilkq,ikqijl.qijqltgixc
djld,iHigltqirlkmiXjikqr,i_djld_iq.qtkixoqiyoxnril’bxrd—Hibqloidjqk
yoxnijq’rixoekixoqiequ;ilogidjldilisltblaqddhidxxyidjqixdjqtixccm”

“Bkicthqog,”irlhgiH,i“njldileeidjhriuhvvqthrjixcikx trihrilvx d,iH
gxo’diyoxn,ilogiHigxo’dib ajialtq;icxtihdirqqbridxibqidjldikx ib rdivq
liehddeqiglbluqgihoidjqijqlgmiV dihcikx iltqirsqlyhouixciAlsdlhoiLjlv,
xcidjldirjhsidjqtq,idjqiSqz xg,idjqoieqdibqidqeeikx ,idjldiHiyoxnilee
lvx didjqiexrrixcijhriequm”

“_Lee_ilvx dihd,iqj—r tqikx igx?—lee?”

“Stqddkir tqm”

Nhdjichouqtisxhodqgilogiqkqieq.qeeqgildidjqiSqz xg,idjqivquult-ehyq
rdtlouqtirdxxgilibxbqod,ilrihcihoilidtx veqgitq.qthq;idjqoirdltdhouil
ehddeq,id toqgilogirlhg:—“Kq’.qirjhssqg,ijl.qikq?iOlbqrigxnoixoidjq
slsqtr?iNqee,inqee,injld’rirhuoqg,ihrirhuoqg;iloginjld’ridxivq,inhee
vq;ilogidjqoilulho,isqtjlsrihdinxo’divq,ilcdqtileemiLokjxn,ihd’rilee
chpqgilogilttlouqgil’tqlgk;ilogirxbqirlhextrixtixdjqtib rdiuxinhdjijhb,
Hir ssxrq;ilrinqeeidjqrqilrilokixdjqtibqo,iUxgishdki’qb!iBxtohouidxikq,
rjhsbldqr,ibxtohou;idjqihoqcclveqijql.qoriveqrrikq;iH’birxttkiHirdxssqg
kqm”

“Exxyijqtq,icthqog,”irlhgiH,i“hcikx ijl.qilokdjhouihbsxtdlodidxidqee
 r,ix dinhdjihd;iv dihcikx iltqixoekidtkhouidxivlbvxxweqi r,ikx iltq
bhrdlyqoihoikx tiulbq;idjld’rileeiHijl.qidxirlkm”

“Logihd’rirlhgi.qtkinqee,ilogiHiehyqidxijqltiliajlsidleyi sidjldinlk;
kx iltqif rdidjqibloicxtijhb—djqiehyqrixcikqmiBxtohouidxikq,irjhsbldqr,
bxtohou!iXj!injqoikqiuqdidjqtq,idqeei’qbiH’.qiaxoae gqgioxdidxiblyqixoq
xci’qbm”

“Lj,ibkigqlticqeexn,ikx ialo’dicxxei ridjldinlk—kx ialo’dicxxei rmiHd
hridjqiqlrhqrdidjhouihoidjqinxtegicxtilibloidxiexxyilrihcijqijlgil
utqldirqatqdihoijhbm”

“Bxtohouidxikq,irjhsbldqr,ibxtohoum”

“Bxtohouihdihr,”irlhgiHmi“Axbqilexou,iZ qqz qu,ieqd’rieql.qidjhriatlwk
blomiV dirdxs,idqeeibqikx tiolbq,inheeikx ?”

“Qehfljm”

Qehflj!idjx ujdiH,iloginqinleyqgilnlk,ivxdjiaxbbqodhou,ilcdqtiqlaj
xdjqt’riclrjhxo,i sxoidjhritluuqgixegirlhext;ilogilutqqgidjldijqinlr
oxdjhouiv dilij bv u,idtkhouidxivqiliv uvqltmiV dinqijlgioxdiuxoq
sqtjlsrilvx.qilij ogtqgikltgr,injqoiajloahouidxid toiliaxtoqt,ilog
exxyhouivlayilriHighgirx,injxirjx egivqirqqoiv diQehfljicxeexnhoui r,
djx ujildilighrdloaqmiRxbqjxn,idjqirhujdixcijhbirdt ayibqirx,idjldiH
rlhgioxdjhouidxiZ qqz quixcijhrivqhouivqjhog,iv dislrrqgixoinhdjibk
axbtlgq,ilophx ridxirqqinjqdjqtidjqirdtlouqtinx egid toidjqirlbqiaxtoqt
djldinqighgmiJqighg;ilogidjqoihdirqqbqgidxibqidjldijqinlrigxuuhoui r,
v dinhdjinjldihodqodiHiax egioxdicxtidjqiehcqixcibqihbluhoqmiDjhr
ahta brdloaq,iax seqginhdjijhrilbvhu x r,ijlec-jhodhou,ijlec-tq.qlehou,
rjtx gqgirxtdixcidley,ioxnivquldihoibqileeiyhogrixci.lu qinxogqtbqodr
logijlec-lsstqjqorhxor,ilogileeiaxooqadqginhdjidjqiSqz xg;ilogiAlsdlho
Ljlv;ilogidjqiequijqijlgiexrd;ilogidjqiAlsqiJxtoichd;ilogidjqirhe.qt
alelvlrj;iloginjldiAlsdlhoiSqequijlgirlhgixcijhb,injqoiHieqcdidjqirjhs
djqiglkistq.hx r;ilogidjqistqghadhxoixcidjqirz lniDhrdhu;ilogidjq
.xkluqinqijlgivx ogix trqe.qridxirlhe;ilogilij ogtqgixdjqtirjlgxnk
djhourm

Hinlritqrxe.qgidxirldhrckibkrqecinjqdjqtidjhritluuqgiQehfljinlritqleek
gxuuhoui rixtioxd,iloginhdjidjldihodqodiatxrrqgidjqinlkinhdjiZ qqz qu,
logixoidjldirhgqixcihditqdtlaqgix tirdqsrmiV diQehfljislrrqgixo,
nhdjx dirqqbhouidxioxdhaqi rmiDjhritqehq.qgibq;ilogixoaqibxtq,ilog
choleekilrihdirqqbqgidxibq,iHistxox oaqgijhbihoibkijqltd,ilij bv um


AJLSDQTi20miLeeiLrdhtm

Liglkixtidnxislrrqg,ilogidjqtqinlriutqldiladh.hdkilvxltgidjqiSqz xgm
Oxdixoekinqtqidjqixegirlherivqhouibqogqg,iv dioqnirlherinqtqiaxbhouixo
vxltg,ilogivxedrixcialo.lr,ilogiaxherixcithuuhou;ihoirjxtd,iq.qtkdjhou
vqdxyqoqgidjldidjqirjhs’ristqsltldhxorinqtqij ttkhouidxiliaexrqm
AlsdlhoiSqequirqegxbixtioq.qtinqodilrjxtq,iv dirldihoijhrinhunlb
yqqshouilirjltsiexxy-x di sxoidjqijlogr:iVheglgighgileeidjqis tajlrhou
logistx.hghouildidjqirdxtqr;ilogidjqibqoiqbsexkqgihoidjqijxegilogixo
djqithuuhouinqtqinxtyhouidheeiexouilcdqtiohujd-cleem

XoidjqiglkicxeexnhouiZ qqz qu’rirhuohouidjqiltdhaeqr,inxtginlriuh.qoild
leeidjqihoorinjqtqidjqirjhs’riaxbslokinqtqirdxsshou,idjldidjqhtiajqrdr
b rdivqixoivxltgivqcxtqiohujd,icxtidjqtqinlrioxidqeehouijxnirxxoidjq
.qrrqeibhujdivqirlhehoumiRxiZ qqz quilogiHiuxdigxnoix tidtlsr,
tqrxe.hou,ijxnq.qt,idxireqqsilrjxtqidheeidjqielrdmiV dihdirqqbridjqk
lenlkriuh.qi.qtkiexouioxdhaqihoidjqrqialrqr,ilogidjqirjhsighgioxdirlhe
cxtirq.qtleiglkrmiV dioxinxogqt;idjqtqinlriliuxxgigqleidxivqigxoq,ilog
djqtqihrioxidqeehouijxniblokidjhouridxivqidjx ujdixc,ivqcxtqidjqiSqz xg
nlric eekiqz hssqgm

Q.qtkixoqiyoxnrinjldilib edhd gqixcidjhour—vqgr,irl aq-slor,iyoh.qrilog
cxtyr,irjx.qerilogidxour,iolsyhor,io d-atlayqtr,iloginjldioxd,iltq
hoghrsqorlveqidxidjqiv rhoqrrixcijx rqyqqshoumiF rdirxinhdjinjlehou,
njhajioqaqrrhdldqrilidjtqq-kqltr’ijx rqyqqshoui sxoidjqinhgqixaqlo,iclt
ctxbileeiutxaqtr,iaxrdqtbxouqtr,igxadxtr,ivlyqtr,ilogivloyqtrmiLog
djx ujidjhrilerxijxegridt qixcibqtajlodi.qrrqer,ikqdioxdivkilokibqlor
dxidjqirlbqiqpdqodilrinhdjinjleqbqomiCxtivqrhgqridjqiutqldieqoudjixc
djqinjlehoui.xkluq,idjqio bqtx riltdhaeqrisqa ehltidxidjqistxrqa dhxo
xcidjqichrjqtk,ilogidjqihbsxrrhvhehdkixcitqselahouidjqbildidjqitqbxdq
jltvxtri r leekictqz qodqg,ihdib rdivqitqbqbvqtqg,idjldixcileeirjhsr,
njlehoui.qrrqeriltqidjqibxrdiqpsxrqgidxilaahgqodrixcileeiyhogr,ilog
qrsqahleekidxidjqigqrdt adhxoilogiexrrixcidjqi.qtkidjhouri sxoinjhaj
djqir aaqrrixcidjqi.xkluqibxrdigqsqogrmiJqoaq,idjqirsltqivxldr,irsltq
rsltr,ilogirsltqiehoqrilogijltsxxor,ilogirsltqiq.qtkdjhour,ilebxrd,iv d
lirsltqiAlsdlhoilogig sehaldqirjhsm

Ldidjqisqthxgixcix tiltth.leildidjqiHrelog,idjqijql.hqrdirdxtluqixcidjq
Sqz xgijlgivqqoilebxrdiaxbseqdqg;iaxbsthrhouijqtivqqc,ivtqlg,inldqt,
c qe,ilogihtxoijxxsrilogirdl.qrmiV d,ilrivqcxtqijhodqg,icxtirxbqidhbq
djqtqinlriliaxodho leicqdajhouilogialttkhouixoivxltgixcigh.qtrixggrilog
qogrixcidjhour,ivxdjieltuqilogirbleem

AjhqcilbxouidjxrqinjxighgidjhricqdajhouilogialttkhouinlriAlsdlho
Vheglg’rirhrdqt,ilieqloixegielgkixcilibxrdigqdqtbhoqgilogihogqcldhulveq
rshthd,iv dinhdjlei.qtkiyhogjqltdqg,injxirqqbqgitqrxe.qgidjld,ihci_rjq_
ax egijqesihd,ioxdjhouirjx egivqicx oginlodhouihoidjqiSqz xg,ilcdqt
xoaqiclhtekiuqddhouidxirqlmiLdixoqidhbqirjqinx egiaxbqixoivxltginhdjil
fltixcishayeqricxtidjqirdqnltg’rislodtk;iloxdjqtidhbqinhdjiliv oajixc
z heericxtidjqiajhqcibldq’rigqry,injqtqijqiyqsdijhriexu;ilidjhtgidhbq
nhdjilitxeeixcicelooqeicxtidjqirbleeixcirxbqixoq’ritjq bldhaivlaym
Oq.qtighgilokinxbloivqddqtigqrqt.qijqtiolbq,injhajinlriAjlthdk—L od
Ajlthdk,ilriq.qtkvxgkialeeqgijqtmiLogiehyqilirhrdqtixciajlthdkighgidjhr
ajlthdlveqiL odiAjlthdkiv rdeqilvx dijhdjqtilogidjhdjqt,itqlgkidxid to
jqtijlogilogijqltdidxilokdjhouidjldistxbhrqgidxikhqegirlcqdk,iaxbcxtd,
logiaxorxeldhxoidxileeixoivxltgilirjhsihoinjhajijqtivqex.qgivtxdjqt
Vheglginlriaxoaqtoqg,ilogihoinjhajirjqijqtrqecixnoqgiliraxtqixtidnxixc
nqee-rl.qgigxeeltrm

V dihdinlrirdltdehouidxirqqidjhriqpaqeeqodijqltdqgiZ lyqtqrriaxbhouixo
vxltg,ilrirjqighgidjqielrdiglk,inhdjiliexouixhe-elgeqihoixoqijlog,ilog
lirdheeiexouqtinjlehouieloaqihoidjqixdjqtmiOxtinlriVheglgijhbrqecioxt
AlsdlhoiSqequildileeivlaynltgmiLricxtiVheglg,ijqialtthqgilvx dinhdjijhb
liexouiehrdixcidjqiltdhaeqrioqqgqg,ilogildiq.qtkictqrjiltth.le,igxno
nqodijhribltyixssxrhdqidjldiltdhaeqi sxoidjqislsqtmiQ.qtkixoaqihoil
njheqiSqequialbqijxvvehouix dixcijhrinjleqvxoqigqo,itxlthouildidjqibqo
gxnoidjqijldajnlkr,itxlthoui sidxidjqithuuqtrildidjqiblrd-jqlg,ilog
djqoiaxoae gqgivkitxlthouivlayihodxijhrinhunlbm

G thouidjqrqiglkrixcistqsltldhxo,iZ qqz quilogiHixcdqoi.hrhdqgidjq
atlcd,ilogilrixcdqoiHilryqgilvx diAlsdlhoiLjlv,ilogijxnijqinlr,ilog
njqoijqinlriuxhouidxiaxbqixoivxltgijhrirjhsmiDxidjqrqiz qrdhxoridjqk
nx egilornqt,idjldijqinlriuqddhouivqddqtilogivqddqt,iloginlriqpsqadqg
lvxltgiq.qtkiglk;ibqlodhbq,idjqidnxialsdlhor,iSqequilogiVheglg,iax eg
lddqogidxiq.qtkdjhouioqaqrrltkidxichdidjqi.qrrqeicxtidjqi.xkluqmiHciH
jlgivqqoigxnothujdijxoqrdinhdjibkrqec,iHinx egijl.qirqqoi.qtkiselhoek
hoibkijqltdidjldiHighgiv dijlecicloakivqhouiaxbbhddqgidjhrinlkidxirx
exouili.xkluq,inhdjx dixoaqielkhouibkiqkqrixoidjqibloinjxinlridxivqidjq
lvrxe dqighadldxtixcihd,irxirxxoilridjqirjhsirlheqgix di sxoidjqixsqo
rqlmiV dinjqoilibloir rsqadrilokintxou,ihdirxbqdhbqrijlssqoridjldihcijq
vqiletqlgkiho.xe.qgihoidjqiblddqt,ijqihorqorhvekirdth.qridxiax.qti s
jhrir rshahxoriq.qoictxbijhbrqecmiLogib ajidjhrinlkihdinlrinhdjibqmiH
rlhgioxdjhou,ilogidthqgidxidjhoyioxdjhoum

Ldielrdihdinlriuh.qoix didjldirxbqidhbqioqpdiglkidjqirjhsinx eg
aqtdlhoekirlhemiRxioqpdibxtohou,iZ qqz quilogiHidxxyili.qtkiqltek
rdltdm


AJLSDQTi21miUxhouiLvxltgm

Hdinlrioqltekirhpix’aexay,iv dixoekiutqkihbsqtcqadibhrdkiglno,injqoinq
gtqniohujidjqinjltcm

“Djqtqiltqirxbqirlhextrit oohouiljqlgidjqtq,ihciHirqqithujd,”irlhgiHidx
Z qqz qu,i“hdialo’divqirjlgxnr;irjq’rixccivkir othrq,iHiu qrr;iaxbq
xo!”

“L.lrd!”iathqgili.xhaq,injxrqixnoqtildidjqirlbqidhbqiaxbhouiaexrq
vqjhogi r,ielhgilijlogi sxoivxdjix tirjx egqtr,ilogidjqoihorho ldhou
jhbrqecivqdnqqoi r,irdxxgirdxxshouicxtnltgiliehddeq,ihoidjqi oaqtdlho
dnhehujd,irdtlouqekisqqthouictxbiZ qqz quidxibqmiHdinlriQehfljm

“Uxhouilvxltg?”

“Jlogrixcc,inheeikx ,”irlhgiHm

“Exxyqqijqtq,”irlhgiZ qqz qu,irjlyhouijhbrqec,i“uxi’nlk!”

“Lho’diuxhouilvxltg,idjqo?”

“Kqr,inqiltq,”irlhgiH,i“v dinjldiv rhoqrrihridjldixcikx tr?iGxikx 
yoxn,iBtmiQehflj,idjldiHiaxorhgqtikx iliehddeqihbsqtdhoqod?”

“Ox,iox,iox;iHinlro’dilnltqixcidjld,”irlhgiQehflj,irexnekilog
nxogqthouekiexxyhouictxbibqidxiZ qqz qu,inhdjidjqibxrdi olaax odlveq
ueloaqrm

“Qehflj,”irlhgiH,i“kx inheeixvehuqibkicthqogilogibqivkinhdjgtlnhoumiNq
ltqiuxhouidxidjqiHoghloilogiSlahchaiXaqlor,iloginx egistqcqtioxdidxivq
gqdlhoqgm”

“Kqivq,ivqikq?iAxbhouivlayilcxtqivtqlyclrd?”

“Jq’riatlayqg,iZ qqz qu,”irlhgiH,i“axbqixom”

“Jxeexl!”iathqgirdldhxoltkiQehflj,ijlhehoui rinjqoinqijlgitqbx.qgilicqn
slaqrm

“Oq.qtibhogijhb,”irlhgiH,i“Z qqz qu,iaxbqixom”

V dijqirdxeqi sidxi rilulho,ilogir ggqoekiaelsshouijhrijlogixoibk
rjx egqt,irlhg—“Ghgikqirqqilokdjhouiexxyhouiehyqibqoiuxhouidxnltgridjld
rjhsilinjheqilux?”

Rdt ayivkidjhriselhoiblddqt-xc-cladiz qrdhxo,iHilornqtqg,irlkhou,i“Kqr,
Hidjx ujdiHighgirqqicx tixtich.qibqo;iv dihdinlridxxighbidxivqir tqm”

“.qtkighb,i.qtkighb,”irlhgiQehfljmi“Bxtohouidxikqm”

Xoaqibxtqinqiz hddqgijhb;iv dixoaqibxtqijqialbqirxcdekilcdqti r;ilog
dx ajhouibkirjx egqtilulho,irlhg,i“Rqqihcikx ialoichogi’qbioxn,inhee
kq?

“Choginjx?”

“Bxtohouidxikq!ibxtohouidxikq!”ijqitqfxhoqg,ilulhoibx.houixccmi“Xj!iH
nlriuxhouidxinltoikqilulhord—v dioq.qtibhog,ioq.qtibhog—hd’rileeixoq,
leeihoidjqiclbhekidxx;—rjltsictxrdidjhribxtohou,ilho’dihd?iUxxg-vkqidx
kqmiRjlo’dirqqikqilulhoi.qtkirxxo,iHiu qrr;i oeqrrihd’rivqcxtqidjq
UtlogiF tkm”iLoginhdjidjqrqiatlayqginxtgrijqicholeekigqsltdqg,ieql.hou
bq,icxtidjqibxbqod,ihoioxirbleeinxogqtbqodildijhrictlodhaihbs gqoaqm

Ldielrd,irdqsshouixoivxltgidjqiSqz xg,inqicx ogiq.qtkdjhouihoistxcx og
z hqd,ioxdilirx eibx.houmiDjqialvhoiqodtloaqinlriexayqginhdjho;idjq
jldajqrinqtqileeixo,ilogie bvqtqginhdjiaxherixcithuuhoumiUxhouicxtnltg
dxidjqicxtqalrdeq,inqicx ogidjqirehgqixcidjqira ddeqixsqomiRqqhouil
ehujd,inqinqodigxno,ilogicx ogixoekiloixegithuuqtidjqtq,intlssqgihoil
dlddqtqgisql-flayqdmiJqinlridjtxnoildinjxeqieqoudji sxoidnxiajqrdr,ijhr
claqigxnonltgrilogihoaexrqgihoijhricxegqgiltbrmiDjqistxcx ogqrdire bvqt
reqsdi sxoijhbm

“Djxrqirlhextrinqirln,iZ qqz qu,injqtqialoidjqkijl.qiuxoqidx?”irlhgiH,
exxyhouig vhx rekildidjqireqqsqtmiV dihdirqqbqgidjld,injqoixoidjq
njltc,iZ qqz quijlgioxdildileeioxdhaqginjldiHioxnilee gqgidx;ijqoaqiH
nx egijl.qidjx ujdibkrqecidxijl.qivqqoixsdhaleekigqaqh.qgihoidjld
blddqt,inqtqihdioxdicxtiQehflj’rixdjqtnhrqihoqpsehalveqiz qrdhxomiV diH
vqldidjqidjhouigxno;ilogilulhoibltyhouidjqireqqsqt,ifxa eltekijhodqgidx
Z qqz quidjldisqtjlsrinqijlgivqrdirhdi sinhdjidjqivxgk;idqeehouijhbidx
qrdlvehrjijhbrqecilaaxtghouekmiJqis dijhrijlogi sxoidjqireqqsqt’ritqlt,
lridjx ujicqqehouihcihdinlrirxcdiqox uj;ilogidjqo,inhdjx dibxtqilgx,
rldiz hqdekigxnoidjqtqm

“Utlahx r!iZ qqz qu,igxo’dirhdidjqtq,”irlhgiHm

“Xj!isqttkigxxgirqld,”irlhgiZ qqz qu,i“bkiax odtkinlk;inxo’dij tdijhb
claqm”

“Claq!”irlhgiH,i“aleeidjldijhriclaq?i.qtkivqoq.xeqodiax odqoloaqidjqo;
v dijxnijltgijqivtqldjqr,ijq’rijql.houijhbrqec;iuqdixcc,iZ qqz qu,ikx 
ltqijql.k,ihd’riuthoghouidjqiclaqixcidjqisxxtmiUqdixcc,iZ qqz qu!iExxy,
jq’eeidnhdajikx ixccirxxomiHinxogqtijqigxo’dinlyqm”

Z qqz quitqbx.qgijhbrqecidxif rdivqkxogidjqijqlgixcidjqireqqsqt,ilog
ehujdqgijhridxbljlnyishsqmiHirldildidjqicqqdmiNqiyqsdidjqishsqislrrhou
x.qtidjqireqqsqt,ictxbixoqidxidjqixdjqtmiBqlonjheq,i sxoiz qrdhxohou
jhbihoijhrivtxyqoiclrjhxo,iZ qqz quiul.qibqidxi ogqtrdlogidjld,ihoijhr
elog,ixnhouidxidjqilvrqoaqixcirqddqqrilogirxclrixcileeirxtdr,idjqiyhou,
ajhqcr,ilogiutqldisqxseqiuqoqtleek,inqtqihoidjqia rdxbixciclddqohou
rxbqixcidjqiexnqtixtgqtricxtixddxblor;ilogidxic tohrjilijx rq
axbcxtdlvekihoidjlditqrsqad,ikx ijlgixoekidxiv ki siqhujdixtidqoielwk
cqeexnr,ilogielkidjqbitx ogihoidjqishqtrilogileax.qrmiVqrhgqr,ihdinlr
.qtkiaxo.qohqodixoiloiqpa trhxo;ib ajivqddqtidjloidjxrqiultgqo-ajlhtr
njhajiltqiaxo.qtdhveqihodxinleyhou-rdhayr;i sxoixaalrhxo,iliajhqc
aleehouijhrilddqoglod,ilogigqrhthouijhbidxiblyqilirqddqqixcijhbrqec
 ogqtilirstqlghouidtqq,isqtjlsrihoirxbqiglbsibltrjkiselaqm

Njheqiolttldhouidjqrqidjhour,iq.qtkidhbqiZ qqz quitqaqh.qgidjqidxbljlny
ctxbibq,ijqicex thrjqgidjqijldajqd-rhgqixcihdix.qtidjqireqqsqt’rijqlgm

“Njld’ridjldicxt,iZ qqz qu?”

“Sqttkiqlrk,iyhee-q;ixj!isqttkiqlrk!”

Jqinlriuxhouixoinhdjirxbqinhegitqbhohraqoaqrilvx dijhridxbljlny-shsq,
njhaj,ihdirqqbqg,ijlgihoihdridnxi rqrivxdjivtlhoqgijhricxqrilogirxxdjqg
jhrirx e,injqoinqinqtqightqadekilddtladqgidxidjqireqqshouithuuqtmiDjq
rdtxoui.lsxtioxniaxbseqdqekicheehouidjqiaxodtladqgijxeq,ihdivquloidx
dqeei sxoijhbmiJqivtqldjqginhdjilirxtdixcib cceqgoqrr;idjqoirqqbqg
dtx veqgihoidjqioxrq;idjqoitq.xe.qgix.qtixoaqixtidnhaq;idjqoirldi silog
t vvqgijhriqkqrm

“Jxeexl!”ijqivtqldjqgildielrd,i“njxivqikqirbxyqtr?”

“Rjhssqgibqo,”ilornqtqgiH,i“njqoigxqrirjqirlhe?”

“Lkq,ilkq,ikqiltqiuxhouihoijqt,ivqikq?iRjqirlheridx-glkmiDjqiAlsdlho
albqilvxltgielrdiohujdm”

“NjldiAlsdlho?—Ljlv?”

“Njxiv dijhbihogqqg?”

Hinlriuxhouidxilryijhbirxbqic tdjqtiz qrdhxoriaxoaqtohouiLjlv,injqoinq
jqltgilioxhrqixoigqaym

“Jxeexl!iRdltv ay’rilrdht,”irlhgidjqithuuqtmi“Jq’rilieh.qekiajhqcibldq,
djld;iuxxgiblo,ilogilishx r;iv dileeileh.qioxn,iHib rdid toidxm”iLogirx
rlkhouijqinqodixoigqay,iloginqicxeexnqgm

Hdinlrioxniaeqltir othrqmiRxxoidjqiatqnialbqixoivxltgihoidnxrilog
djtqqr;idjqithuuqtrivqrdhttqgidjqbrqe.qr;idjqibldqrinqtqiladh.qek
qouluqg;ilogirq.qtleixcidjqirjxtqisqxseqinqtqiv rkihoivthouhoui.lthx r
elrdidjhourixoivxltgmiBqlonjheqiAlsdlhoiLjlvitqblhoqgiho.hrhvek
qorjthoqginhdjhoijhrialvhom


AJLSDQTi22miBqttkiAjthrdblrm

Ldieqoudj,idxnltgrioxxo,i sxoidjqicholeighrbhrrleixcidjqirjhs’r
thuuqtr,ilogilcdqtidjqiSqz xgijlgivqqoijl eqgix dictxbidjqinjltc,ilog
lcdqtidjqiq.qt-djx ujdc eiAjlthdkijlgiaxbqixccihoilinjleq-vxld,inhdj
jqtielrdiuhcd—liohujd-alsicxtiRd vv,idjqirqaxogibldq,ijqt
vtxdjqt-ho-eln,ilogilirsltqiVhveqicxtidjqirdqnltg—lcdqtileeidjhr,idjq
dnxiAlsdlhor,iSqequilogiVheglg,ihrr qgictxbidjqialvho,ilogid tohouidx
djqiajhqcibldq,iSqequirlhg:

“Oxn,iBtmiRdltv ay,iltqikx ir tqiq.qtkdjhouihrithujd?iAlsdlhoiLjlvihr
leeitqlgk—f rdirsxyqidxijhb—oxdjhouibxtqidxivqiuxdictxbirjxtq,iqj?
Nqee,ialeeileeijlogr,idjqomiB rdqti’qbilcdijqtq—velrdi’qb!”

“Oxioqqgixcistxcloqinxtgr,ijxnq.qtiutqldidjqij ttk,iSqequ,”irlhg
Vheglg,i“v dilnlkinhdjidjqq,icthqogiRdltv ay,ilogigxix tivhgghoum”

Jxnioxn!iJqtqi sxoidjqi.qtkisxhodixcirdltdhouicxtidjqi.xkluq,iAlsdlho
SqequilogiAlsdlhoiVheglginqtqiuxhouihdinhdjilijhujijlogixoidjq
z ltdqt-gqay,if rdilrihcidjqkinqtqidxivqifxhod-axbblogqtrildirql,ilr
nqeeilridxileeilssqltloaqrihoisxtdmiLog,ilricxtiAlsdlhoiLjlv,ioxirhuo
xcijhbinlrikqdidxivqirqqo;ixoek,idjqkirlhgijqinlrihoidjqialvhomiV d
djqo,idjqihgqlinlr,idjldijhristqrqoaqinlrivkioxibqlorioqaqrrltkiho
uqddhouidjqirjhsi ogqtinqhuj,ilogirdqqthouijqtinqeeix didxirqlmiHogqqg,
lridjldinlrioxdildileeijhristxsqtiv rhoqrr,iv didjqishexd’r;ilogilrijq
nlrioxdikqdiaxbseqdqekitqax.qtqg—rxidjqkirlhg—djqtqcxtq,iAlsdlhoiLjlv
rdlkqgivqexnmiLogileeidjhrirqqbqgiold tleiqox uj;iqrsqahleekilrihoidjq
bqtajlodirqt.haqiblokialsdlhorioq.qtirjxnidjqbrqe.qrixoigqayicxtil
axorhgqtlveqidhbqilcdqtijql.houi sidjqiloajxt,iv ditqblhoix.qtidjq
alvhoidlveq,ijl.houilicltqnqeeibqttk-blyhouinhdjidjqhtirjxtqicthqogr,
vqcxtqidjqkiz hdidjqirjhsicxtiuxxginhdjidjqishexdm

V didjqtqinlrioxdib ajiajloaqidxidjhoyix.qtidjqiblddqt,icxtiAlsdlho
Sqequinlrioxnileeileh.qmiJqirqqbqgidxigxibxrdixcidjqidleyhouilog
axbbloghou,ilogioxdiVheglgm

“Lcdijqtq,ikqirxorixcivlajqextr,”ijqiathqg,ilridjqirlhextriehouqtqgild
djqiblho-blrdmi“BtmiRdltv ay,igth.qi’qbilcdm”

“Rdthyqidjqidqodidjqtq!”—nlridjqioqpdixtgqtmiLriHijhodqgivqcxtq,idjhr
njleqvxoqibltz qqinlrioq.qtishdajqgiqpaqsdihoisxtd;ilogixoivxltgidjq
Sqz xg,icxtidjhtdkikqltr,idjqixtgqtidxirdthyqidjqidqodinlrinqeeiyoxno
dxivqidjqioqpdidjhouidxijql.houi sidjqiloajxtm

“Bloidjqialsrdlo!iVexxgilogidj ogqt!—f bs!”—nlridjqioqpdiaxbblog,ilog
djqiatqnirstlouicxtidjqijlogrshyqrm

Oxnihoiuqddhoui ogqtinqhuj,idjqirdldhxoiuqoqtleekixaa shqgivkidjqishexd
hridjqicxtnltgisltdixcidjqirjhsmiLogijqtqiVheglg,injx,inhdjiSqequ,ivq
hdiyoxno,ihoilgghdhxoidxijhrixdjqtixcchaqtr,inlrixoqixcidjqiehaqorqg
shexdrixcidjqisxtd—jqivqhouir rsqadqgidxijl.qiuxdijhbrqeciblgqilishexd
hoixtgqtidxirl.qidjqiOlod ayqdishexd-cqqidxileeidjqirjhsrijqinlr
axoaqtoqgiho,icxtijqioq.qtishexdqgilokixdjqtiatlcd—Vheglg,iHirlk,ibhujd
oxnivqirqqoiladh.qekiqouluqgihoiexxyhouix.qtidjqivxnricxtidjq
lsstxlajhouiloajxt,ilogildihodqt.lerirhouhouinjldirqqbqgilighrbleirdl.q
xcisrlebxgk,idxiajqqtidjqijlogrildidjqinhogelrr,injxitxltqgicxtdjirxbq
rxtdixciliajxt rilvx didjqiuhterihoiVxxveqiLeeqk,inhdjijqltdkiuxxg
nheemiOq.qtdjqeqrr,ioxdidjtqqiglkristq.hx r,iVheglgijlgidxegidjqbidjld
oxistxcloqirxourinx egivqileexnqgixoivxltgidjqiSqz xg,isltdha eltekiho
uqddhoui ogqtinqhuj;ilogiAjlthdk,ijhrirhrdqt,ijlgiselaqgilirbleeiajxhaq
axskixciNlddrihoiqlajirqlblo’rivqtdjm

Bqlodhbq,ix.qtrqqhouidjqixdjqtisltdixcidjqirjhs,iAlsdlhoiSqequithssqg
logirnxtqilrdqtoihoidjqibxrdicthujdc eiblooqtmiHilebxrdidjx ujdijq
nx egirhoyidjqirjhsivqcxtqidjqiloajxtiax egivqiuxdi s;iho.xe odlthekiH
sl rqgixoibkijlogrshyq,ilogidxegiZ qqz quidxigxidjqirlbq,idjhoyhouixc
djqisqtherinqivxdjitlo,ihoirdltdhouixoidjqi.xkluqinhdjir ajiligq.heicxt
lishexdmiHinlriaxbcxtdhouibkrqec,ijxnq.qt,inhdjidjqidjx ujdidjldiho
shx riVheglgibhujdivqicx ogirxbqirle.ldhxo,irshdqixcijhrirq.qoij ogtqg
logirq.qodk-rq.qodjielk;injqoiHicqedilir ggqoirjltsisxyqihoibkitqlt,
logid tohouitx og,inlrijxtthchqgildidjqilsslthdhxoixciAlsdlhoiSqequiho
djqiladixcinhdjgtlnhouijhriequictxbibkihbbqghldqi.hahohdkmiDjldinlribk
chtrdiyhaym

“Hridjldidjqinlkidjqkijql.qihoidjqibltajlodirqt.haq?”ijqitxltqgm
“Rsthou,idjx irjqqs-jqlg;irsthou,ilogivtqlyidjkivlayvxoq!iNjkigxo’dikq
rsthou,iHirlk,ileeixcikq—rsthou!iZ xjxu!irsthou,idjx iajlsinhdjidjqitqg
njhryqtr;irsthouidjqtq,iRaxdaj-als;irsthou,idjx iutqqoislodrmiRsthou,iH
rlk,ileeixcikq,ilogirsthouikx tiqkqrix d!”iLogirxirlkhou,ijqibx.qg
lexouidjqinhogelrr,ijqtqilogidjqtqi rhouijhriequi.qtkictqqek,injheq
hbsqtd tvlveqiVheglgiyqsdieqlghouixccinhdjijhrisrlebxgkmiDjhoyriH,
AlsdlhoiSqequib rdijl.qivqqoigthoyhouirxbqdjhouidx-glkm

Ldielrdidjqiloajxtinlri s,idjqirlherinqtqirqd,ilogixccinqiuehgqgmiHd
nlrilirjxtd,iaxegiAjthrdblr;ilogilridjqirjxtdioxtdjqtoiglkibqtuqgihodx
ohujd,inqicx ogix trqe.qrilebxrdivtxlgi sxoidjqinhodtkixaqlo,injxrq
ctqqwhouirstlkialrqgi rihoihaq,ilrihoisxehrjqgiltbxtmiDjqiexouitxnrixc
dqqdjixoidjqiv enltyriuehrdqoqgihoidjqibxxoehujd;ilogiehyqidjqinjhdq
h.xtkid ryrixcirxbqij uqiqeqsjlod,i.lrdia t.houihahaeqrigqsqogqgictxb
djqivxnrm

EloyiVheglg,ilrishexd,ijqlgqgidjqichtrdinldaj,ilogiq.qtilogiloxo,ilr
djqixegiatlcdigqqsigh.qgihodxidjqiutqqoirqlr,ilogirqodidjqirjh.qthou
ctxrdileeix.qtijqt,ilogidjqinhogrijxneqg,ilogidjqiaxtgluqitlou,ijhr
rdqlgkioxdqrinqtqijqltg,—


_“Rnqqdichqegrivqkxogidjqirnqeehouicexxg,iRdlogigtqrrqgihoieh.hou
utqqomiRxidxidjqiFqnrixegiAlolloirdxxg,iNjheqiFxtgloitxeeqgivqdnqqom”_



Oq.qtighgidjxrqirnqqdinxtgrirx ogibxtqirnqqdekidxibqidjloidjqomiDjqk
nqtqic eeixcijxsqilogict hdhxomiRshdqixcidjhricthuhginhodqtiohujdiho
djqivxhrdqtx riLdelodha,irshdqixcibkinqdicqqdiloginqddqtiflayqd,idjqtq
nlrikqd,ihdidjqoirqqbqgidxibq,iblokiliseqlrlodijl.qoihoirdxtq;ilog
bqlgrilogiuelgqrirxiqdqtoleeki.qtole,idjldidjqiutlrrirjxdi sivkidjq
rsthou,i odtxggqo,i onhedqg,itqblhorildibhgr bbqtm

Ldielrdinqiulhoqgir ajiloixcchou,idjldidjqidnxishexdrinqtqioqqgqgiox
exouqtmiDjqirdx dirlhe-vxldidjldijlgilaaxbslohqgi rivquloitlouhou
lexourhgqm

Hdinlria thx rilogioxdi oseqlrhou,ijxniSqequilogiVheglginqtqilccqadqg
ldidjhrif oad tq,iqrsqahleekiAlsdlhoiVheglgmiCxtiexldjidxigqsltd,ikqd;
.qtkiexldjidxieql.q,icxtiuxxg,ilirjhsivx ogixoirxiexouilogisqthex ril
.xkluq—vqkxogivxdjirdxtbkiAlsqr;ilirjhsihoinjhajirxbqidjx rlogrixcijhr
jltgiqltoqgigxeeltrinqtqiho.qrdqg;ilirjhs,ihoinjhajiloixegirjhsbldq
rlheqgilrialsdlho;ilibloilebxrdilrixegilrijq,ixoaqibxtqirdltdhouidx
qoax odqtileeidjqidqttxtrixcidjqishdheqrrifln;iexldjidxirlkiuxxg-vkqidx
lidjhouirxiq.qtkinlkivthbc eixciq.qtkihodqtqrdidxijhb,—sxxtixegiVheglg
ehouqtqgiexou;islaqgidjqigqayinhdjilophx rirdthgqr;itloigxnoihodxidjq
alvhoidxirsqlyiloxdjqticltqnqeeinxtgidjqtq;ilulhoialbqixoigqay,ilog
exxyqgidxinhognltg;iexxyqgidxnltgridjqinhgqilogiqogeqrrinldqtr,ixoek
vx ogqgivkidjqiclt-xcci orqqoiQlrdqtoiAxodhoqodr;iexxyqgidxnltgridjq
elog;iexxyqgilexcd;iexxyqgithujdilogieqcd;iexxyqgiq.qtknjqtqilog
oxnjqtq;ilogildielrd,ibqajlohaleekiaxhehouilitxsqi sxoihdrisho,
axo. erh.qekiutlrsqgirdx diSqequivkidjqijlog,ilogijxeghoui silielodqto,
cxtilibxbqodirdxxgiulwhouijqtxhaleekihoijhriclaq,ilrib ajilridxirlk,
“Oq.qtdjqeqrr,icthqogiSqequ,iHialoirdlogihd;ikqr,iHialom”

LricxtiSqequijhbrqec,ijqidxxyihdibxtqiehyqilisjhexrxsjqt;iv dicxtilee
jhrisjhexrxsjk,idjqtqinlrilidqltidnhoyehouihoijhriqkq,injqoidjqielodqto
albqidxxioqltmiLogijq,idxx,ighgioxdiliehddeqit oictxbialvhoidxigqay—oxn
linxtgivqexn,ilogioxnilinxtginhdjiRdltv ay,idjqiajhqcibldqm

V d,ildielrd,ijqid toqgidxijhriaxbtlgq,inhdjilicholeirxtdixciexxyilvx d
jhb,—“AlsdlhoiVheglg—axbq,ixegirjhsbldq,inqib rdiuxmiVlayidjqiblho-kltg
djqtq!iVxldiljxk!iRdlogivkidxiaxbqiaexrqilexourhgq,ioxn!iAltqc e,
altqc e!—axbq,iVheglg,ivxk—rlkikx tielrdmiE ayidxikq,iRdltv ay—e ayidx
kq,iBtmiRd vv—e ayidxikq,iBtmiCelry—uxxg-vkqilogiuxxgie ayidxikq
lee—logidjhriglkidjtqqikqltriH’eeijl.qilijxdir ssqtirbxyhouicxtikqiho
xegiOlod ayqdmiJ ttljilogilnlk!”

“Uxgiveqrrikq,ilogijl.qikqihoiJhrijxekiyqqshou,ibqo,”ib tb tqgixeg
Vheglg,ilebxrdihoaxjqtqodekmi“Hijxsqikq’eeijl.qichoqinqldjqtioxn,irx
djldiAlsdlhoiLjlviblkirxxoivqibx.houilbxouikq—liseqlrlodir oihrileeijq
oqqgr,ilogikq’eeijl.qiseqodkixcidjqbihoidjqidtxshai.xkluqikqiuxmiVq
altqc eihoidjqij od,ikqibldqrmiGxo’dirdl.qidjqivxldrioqqgeqrrek,ikq
jltsxxoqqtr;iuxxginjhdqiaqgltiseloyihritlhrqgic eeidjtqqisqtiaqodm
nhdjhoidjqikqltmiGxo’dicxtuqdikx tistlkqtr,iqhdjqtmiBtmiRdltv ay,ibhog
djldiaxxsqtigxo’dinlrdqidjqirsltqirdl.qrmiXj!idjqirlhe-oqqgeqriltqiho
djqiutqqoiexayqt!iGxo’dinjleqihdidxxib ajil’iExtg’riglkr,ibqo;iv d
gxo’dibhrriliclhtiajloaqiqhdjqt,idjld’ritqfqadhouiJql.qo’riuxxgiuhcdrm
Jl.qiloiqkqidxidjqibxelrrqridhqtaq,iBtmiRd vv;ihdinlriliehddeqieqlyk,iH
djx ujdmiHcikqidx ajildidjqihrelogr,iBtmiCelry,ivqnltqixcicxtohaldhxom
Uxxg-vkq,iuxxg-vkq!iGxo’diyqqsidjldiajqqrqidxxiexouigxnoihoidjqijxeg,
BtmiRdltv ay;ihd’eeirsxhemiVqialtqc einhdjidjqiv ddqt—dnqodkiaqodridjq
sx ogihdinlr,ilogibhogikq,ihc—”

“Axbq,iaxbq,iAlsdlhoiVheglg;irdxsislel.qthou,—lnlk!”iloginhdjidjld,
Sqequij tthqgijhbix.qtidjqirhgq,ilogivxdjigtxsdihodxidjqivxldm

Rjhsilogivxldigh.qtuqg;idjqiaxeg,iglbsiohujdivtqqwqiveqnivqdnqqo;il
ratqlbhouiu eeiceqnix.qtjqlg;idjqidnxij eerinhegekitxeeqg;inqiul.q
djtqqijql.k-jqltdqgiajqqtr,ilogivehogekise ouqgiehyqicldqihodxidjqiexoq
Ldelodham


AJLSDQTi23miDjqiEqqiRjxtqm

Rxbqiajlsdqtrivlay,ixoqiV eyhoudxoinlrirsxyqoixc,ilidlee,ioqnelogqg
blthoqt,iqoax odqtqgihoiOqniVqgcxtgildidjqihoom

Njqoixoidjldirjh.qthouinhodqt’riohujd,idjqiSqz xgidjt rdijqti.hoghadh.q
vxnrihodxidjqiaxegiblehahx rinl.qr,injxirjx egiHirqqirdloghouildijqt
jqebiv diV eyhoudxo!iHiexxyqginhdjirkbsldjqdhailnqilogicqltc eoqrri sxo
djqiblo,injxihoibhg-nhodqtif rdielogqgictxbilicx tikqltr’iglouqtx r
.xkluq,iax egirxi otqrdhouekis rjixccilulhoicxtirdheeiloxdjqt
dqbsqrd x ridqtbmiDjqielogirqqbqgiraxtajhouidxijhricqqdmiNxogqtc eeqrd
djhouriltqiq.qtidjqi obqodhxolveq;igqqsibqbxthqrikhqegioxiqshdlsjr;
djhrirhp-hoajiajlsdqtihridjqirdxoqeqrriutl.qixciV eyhoudxomiEqdibqixoek
rlkidjldihdicltqginhdjijhbilrinhdjidjqirdxtb-dxrrqgirjhs,idjld
bhrqtlvekigth.qrilexouidjqieqqnltgielogmiDjqisxtdinx egiclhoiuh.q
r aaxt;idjqisxtdihrishdhc e;ihoidjqisxtdihrirlcqdk,iaxbcxtd,
jqltdjrdxoq,ir ssqt,inltbiveloyqdr,icthqogr,ileeidjld’riyhogidxix t
bxtdlehdhqrmiV dihoidjldiuleq,idjqisxtd,idjqielog,ihridjldirjhs’r
ghtqrdifqxsltgk;irjqib rdicekileeijxrshdlehdk;ixoqidx ajixcielog,
djx ujihdiv diutlwqidjqiyqqe,inx egiblyqijqtirj ggqtidjtx ujilog
djtx ujmiNhdjileeijqtibhujdirjqiatxngrileeirlheixccirjxtq;ihoirxigxhou,
chujdri’ulhordidjqi.qtkinhogridjldiclhoinx egivexnijqtijxbqnltg;irqqyr
leeidjqielrjqgirql’rielogeqrroqrrilulho;icxtitqc uq’rirlyqicxtextoek
t rjhouihodxisqthe;ijqtixoekicthqogijqtivhddqtqrdicxq!

Yoxnikqioxn,iV eyhoudxo?iUehbsrqrigxikqirqqbidxirqqixcidjldibxtdleek
hodxeqtlveqidt dj;idjldileeigqqs,iqltoqrdidjhoyhouihriv didjqihodtqshg
qccxtdixcidjqirx eidxiyqqsidjqixsqoihogqsqogqoaqixcijqtirql;injheqidjq
nhegqrdinhogrixcijql.qoilogiqltdjiaxorshtqidxialrdijqtixoidjq
dtqlajqtx r,irel.hrjirjxtq?

V dilrihoielogeqrroqrrilexoqitqrhgqrijhujqrdidt dj,irjxtqeqrr,
hogqchohdqilriUxg—rx,ivqddqtihrihdidxisqthrjihoidjldijxnehouihochohdq,
djloivqihouexthx rekiglrjqgi sxoidjqieqq,iq.qoihcidjldinqtqirlcqdk!iCxt
nxtb-ehyq,idjqo,ixj!injxinx egiatl.qoiatlneidxielog!iDqttxtrixcidjq
dqtthveq!ihrileeidjhriluxokirxi.lho?iDlyqijqltd,idlyqijqltd,iX
V eyhoudxo!iVqltidjqqiuthbek,igqbhuxg!i sictxbidjqirstlkixcidjk
xaqlo-sqthrjhou—rdtlhujdi s,ieqlsridjkilsxdjqxrhr!


AJLSDQTi24miDjqiLg.xaldqm

LriZ qqz quilogiHiltqioxniclhtekiqbvltyqgihoidjhriv rhoqrrixcinjlehou;
logilridjhriv rhoqrrixcinjlehouijlrirxbqjxniaxbqidxivqitqultgqgilbxou
elogrbqoilrilitldjqti osxqdhaleilogighrtqs dlveqis tr hd;idjqtqcxtq,iH
lbileeilophqdkidxiaxo.hoaqikq,ikqielogrbqo,ixcidjqihof rdhaqijqtqvk
gxoqidxi rij odqtrixcinjleqrm

Hoidjqichtrdiselaq,ihdiblkivqigqqbqgilebxrdir sqtce x ridxiqrdlvehrj
djqiclad,idjldilbxouisqxseqildieltuq,idjqiv rhoqrrixcinjlehouihrioxd
laax odqgixoilieq.qeinhdjinjldiltqialeeqgidjqiehvqtleistxcqrrhxormiHcil
rdtlouqtinqtqihodtxg aqgihodxilokibhraqeeloqx ribqdtxsxehdloirxahqdk,
hdinx egiv direhujdekilg.loaqidjqiuqoqtleixshohxoixcijhribqthdr,inqtq
jqistqrqodqgidxidjqiaxbslokilrilijltsxxoqqt,irlk;ilogihcihoiqb eldhxo
xcidjqiol.leixcchaqtrijqirjx egilssqogidjqihohdhleriRmNmCmi(RsqtbiNjleq
Chrjqtk)idxijhri.hrhdhouialtg,ir ajilistxaqg tqinx egivqigqqbqg
stq-qbhoqodekistqr bhouilogithgha ex rm

Gx vdeqrrixoqieqlghouitqlrxoinjkidjqinxtegigqaehoqrijxoxthoui r
njleqbqo,ihridjhr:idjqkidjhoyidjld,ildivqrd,ix ti.xaldhxoilbx odridxil
v dajqthouirxtdixciv rhoqrr;ilogidjldinjqoiladh.qekiqouluqgidjqtqho,inq
ltqir ttx ogqgivkileeiblooqtixcigqcheqbqodrmiV dajqtrinqiltq,idjldihr
dt qmiV div dajqtr,ilerx,ilogiv dajqtrixcidjqivexxghqrdivlguqijl.qivqqo
leeiBltdhleiAxbblogqtrinjxbidjqinxtegiho.lthlvekigqehujdridxijxoxtmiLog
lricxtidjqiblddqtixcidjqileequqgi oaeqloehoqrrixcix tiv rhoqrr,ikq
rjleeirxxoivqihohdhldqgihodxiaqtdlhoicladrijhdjqtdxistqddkiuqoqtleek
 oyoxno,iloginjhaj,i sxoidjqinjxeq,inheeidth bsjlodekiselodidjqirsqtb
njleq-rjhsildieqlrdilbxouidjqiaeqloehqrdidjhourixcidjhridhgkiqltdjmiV d
q.qoiutlodhouidjqiajltuqihoiz qrdhxoidxivqidt q;injldighrxtgqtqg
rehssqtkigqayrixcilinjleq-rjhsiltqiaxbsltlveqidxidjqi orsqlylveq
altthxoixcidjxrqivlddeq-chqegrictxbinjhajirxiblokirxeghqtritqd toidx
gthoyihoileeielghqr’isel ghdr?iLogihcidjqihgqlixcisqtheirxib aj
qojloaqridjqisxs eltiaxoaqhdixcidjqirxeghqt’ristxcqrrhxo;ieqdibqilrr tq
kqidjldiblokili.qdqtloinjxijlrictqqekibltajqgi sidxilivlddqtk,inx eg
z hayekitqaxheildidjqilsslthdhxoixcidjqirsqtbinjleq’ri.lrdidlhe,
cloohouihodxiqgghqridjqilhtix.qtijhrijqlgmiCxtinjldiltqidjq
axbstqjqorhveqidqttxtrixcibloiaxbsltqginhdjidjqihodqtehoyqgidqttxtrilog
nxogqtrixciUxg!

V d,idjx ujidjqinxtegirax drildi rinjleqij odqtr,ikqdigxqrihd
 onhddhouekislki ridjqistxcx ogqrdijxbluq;ikql,iloilee-lvx oghou
lgxtldhxo!icxtilebxrdileeidjqidlsqtr,ielbsr,ilogialogeqridjldiv to
tx ogidjqiuexvq,iv to,ilrivqcxtqirxiblokirjthoqr,idxix tiuextk!

V diexxyildidjhriblddqtihoixdjqtiehujdr;inqhujihdihoileeirxtdrixc
raleqr;irqqinjldinqinjleqbqoiltq,ilogijl.qivqqom

NjkighgidjqiG dajihoiGqiNhdd’ridhbqijl.qilgbhtlerixcidjqhtinjlehou
ceqqdr?iNjkighgiEx hriP.HmixciCtloaq,ildijhrixnoisqtrxoleiqpsqorq,ichd
x dinjlehouirjhsrictxbiG oyhty,ilogisxehdqekiho.hdqidxidjldidxnoirxbq
raxtqixtidnxixciclbhehqrictxbix tixnoihrelogixciOlod ayqd?iNjkighg
Vthdlhoivqdnqqoidjqikqltri1750ilogi1788islkidxijqtinjleqbqoihoivx odhqr
 snltgrixci£1,000,000?iLogielrdek,ijxniaxbqrihdidjldinqinjleqbqoixc
Lbqthalioxnix do bvqtileeidjqitqrdixcidjqivlogqginjleqbqoihoidjqinxteg;
rlheiliol.kixci snltgrixcirq.qoij ogtqgi.qrrqer;iblooqgivkiqhujdqqo
djx rlogibqo;ikqltekiaxor bhoui4,000,000ixcigxeeltr;idjqirjhsrinxtdj,
ldidjqidhbqixcirlhehou,i$20,000,000!ilogiq.qtkikqltihbsxtdhouihodxix t
jltvxtrilinqeeitqlsqgijlt.qrdixci$7,000,000miJxniaxbqrileeidjhr,ihc
djqtqivqioxdirxbqdjhouis hrrlodihoinjlehou?

V didjhrihrioxdidjqijlec;iexxyilulhom

Hictqqekilrrqtd,idjldidjqiaxrbxsxehdqisjhexrxsjqtialooxd,icxtijhriehcq,
sxhodix dixoqirhoueqisqlaqc eihoce qoaq,injhajinhdjhoidjqielrdirhpdk
kqltrijlrixsqtldqgibxtqisxdqodhleeki sxoidjqinjxeqivtxlginxteg,idlyqo
hoixoqiluutquldq,idjloidjqijhujilogibhujdkiv rhoqrrixcinjlehoumiXoqinlk
logiloxdjqt,ihdijlrivquxddqoiq.qodrirxitqbltylveqihoidjqbrqe.qr,ilogirx
axodho x rekibxbqodx rihoidjqhtirqz qodhleihrr qr,idjldinjlehouiblk
nqeeivqitqultgqgilridjldiQuksdhloibxdjqt,injxivxtqixccrsthouidjqbrqe.qr
stquolodictxbijqtinxbvmiHdinx egivqilijxsqeqrr,iqogeqrridlryidx
aldlexu qileeidjqrqidjhourmiEqdilijlogc eir cchaqmiCxtiblokikqltrislrd
djqinjleq-rjhsijlrivqqoidjqishxoqqtihoicqttqdhouix didjqitqbxdqrdilog
eqlrdiyoxnoisltdrixcidjqiqltdjmiRjqijlriqpsextqgirqlrilogiltajhsqeluxqr
njhajijlgioxiajltd,injqtqioxiAxxyixti.loax .qtijlgiq.qtirlheqgmiHc
LbqthaloilogiQ txsqloibqo-xc-nltioxnisqlaqc eekithgqihoixoaqirl.luq
jltvxtr,ieqdidjqbichtqirle dqridxidjqijxoxtilogiuextkixcidjq
njleq-rjhs,injhajixthuholeekirjxnqgidjqbidjqinlk,ilogichtrdihodqtstqdqg
vqdnqqoidjqbilogidjqirl.luqrmiDjqkiblkiaqeqvtldqilridjqkinheeidjq
jqtxqrixciQpsexthouiQpsqghdhxor,ikx tiAxxyr,ikx tiYt rqordqtor;iv diH
rlkidjldiraxtqrixciloxokbx riAlsdlhorijl.qirlheqgix dixciOlod ayqd,
djldinqtqilriutqld,ilogiutqldqtidjloikx tiAxxyilogikx tiYt rqordqtom
Cxtihoidjqhtir aax teqrriqbsdk-jlogqgoqrr,idjqk,ihoidjqijqldjqohrj
rjltyqginldqtr,ilogivkidjqivqlajqrixci otqaxtgqg,ifl.qehoihrelogr,
vlddeqginhdji.htuhoinxogqtrilogidqttxtridjldiAxxyinhdjileeijhriblthoqr
logib ryqdrinx egioxdinheehouekijl.qigltqgmiLeeidjldihriblgqir ajil
cex thrjixcihoidjqixegiRx djiRqli.xkluqr,idjxrqidjhourinqtqiv didjq
ehcq-dhbqiaxbbxoselaqrixcix tijqtxhaiOlod ayqdqtrmiXcdqo,ilg.qod tqr
njhaji.loax .qtigqghaldqridjtqqiajlsdqtridx,idjqrqibqoilaax odqg
 onxtdjkixcivqhouirqdigxnoihoidjqirjhs’riaxbbxoiexumiLj,idjqinxteg!iXj,
djqinxteg!

 odheidjqinjleqichrjqtkitx ogqgiAlsqiJxto,ioxiaxbbqtaqiv diaxexohle,
raltaqekilokihodqtax trqiv diaxexohle,inlrialtthqgixoivqdnqqoiQ txsq
logidjqiexouiehoqixcidjqixs eqodiRslohrjistx.hoaqrixoidjqiSlahcha
axlrdmiHdinlridjqinjleqbloinjxichtrdivtxyqidjtx ujidjqifqlex risxehak
xcidjqiRslohrjiatxno,idx ajhouidjxrqiaxexohqr;ilog,ihcirslaqisqtbhddqg,
hdibhujdivqighrdhoadekirjxnoijxnictxbidjxrqinjleqbqoildielrdiq.qod ldqg
djqiehvqtldhxoixciSqt ,iAjheh,ilogiVxeh.hlictxbidjqikxyqixciXegiRslho,
logidjqiqrdlvehrjbqodixcidjqiqdqtoleigqbxatlakihoidjxrqisltdrm

DjldiutqldiLbqthalixoidjqixdjqtirhgqixcidjqirsjqtq,iL rdtlehl,inlr
uh.qoidxidjqiqoehujdqoqginxtegivkidjqinjleqblomiLcdqtihdrichtrd
ve ogqt-vxtoighrax.qtkivkiliG dajblo,ileeixdjqtirjhsriexouirj ooqg
djxrqirjxtqrilrisqrdhcqtx rekivltvltx r;iv didjqinjleq-rjhsidx ajqg
djqtqmiDjqinjleq-rjhsihridjqidt qibxdjqtixcidjldioxnibhujdkiaxexokm
Bxtqx.qt,ihoidjqihocloakixcidjqichtrdiL rdtlehloirqddeqbqod,idjq
qbhutlodrinqtqirq.qtleidhbqrirl.qgictxbirdlt.ldhxoivkidjqivqoq.xeqod
vhra hdixcidjqinjleq-rjhsie ayhekigtxsshouiloiloajxtihoidjqhtinldqtrm
Djqi oax odqgihreqrixcileeiSxekoqrhliaxocqrridjqirlbqidt dj,ilogigx
axbbqtahleijxbluqidxidjqinjleq-rjhs,idjldiaeqltqgidjqinlkicxtidjq
bhrrhxoltkilogidjqibqtajlod,ilogihoiblokialrqrialtthqgidjqisthbhdh.q
bhrrhxolthqridxidjqhtichtrdigqrdholdhxormiHcidjldigx veq-vxedqgielog,
Flslo,ihriq.qtidxivqaxbqijxrshdlveq,ihdihridjqinjleq-rjhsilexoqidxinjxb
djqiatqghdinheeivqig q;icxtiletqlgkirjqihrixoidjqidjtqrjxegm

V dihc,ihoidjqiclaqixcileeidjhr,ikx irdheeigqaeltqidjldinjlehouijlriox
ærdjqdhaleekioxveqilrrxahldhxoriaxooqadqginhdjihd,idjqoilbiHitqlgkidx
rjh.qtichcdkieloaqrinhdjikx idjqtq,ilogi ojxtrqikx inhdjilirsehdijqebqd
q.qtkidhbqm

Djqinjleqijlrioxiclbx ril djxt,iloginjlehouioxiclbx riajtxohaeqt,ikx 
nheeirlkm

_Djqinjleqioxiclbx ril djxt,iloginjlehouioxiclbx riajtxohaeqt?_iNjx
ntxdqidjqichtrdilaax odixcix tiEq.hldjlo?iNjxiv dibhujdkiFxv!iLoginjx
axbsxrqgidjqichtrdiolttldh.qixcilinjlehou-.xkluq?iNjx,iv dioxieqrril
sthoaqidjloiLectqgidjqiUtqld,injx,inhdjijhrixnoitxkleisqo,idxxyigxno
djqinxtgrictxbiXdjqt,idjqiOxtnquhloinjleq-j odqtixcidjxrqidhbqr!iLog
njxistxox oaqgix tiuexnhouiq exukihoiSltehlbqod?iNjx,iv diQgb ogiV tyq!

Dt qiqox uj,iv didjqoinjleqbqoidjqbrqe.qriltqisxxtigq.her;idjqkijl.qiox
uxxgivexxgihoidjqhti.qhorm

_Oxiuxxgivexxgihoidjqhti.qhor?_iDjqkijl.qirxbqdjhouivqddqtidjloitxkle
vexxgidjqtqmiDjqiutlogbxdjqtixciVqoflbhoiCtloyehoinlriBltkiBxttqe;
lcdqtnltgr,ivkibltthluq,iBltkiCxeuqt,ixoqixcidjqixegirqddeqtrixc
Olod ayqd,ilogidjqiloaqrdtqrridxiliexouiehoqixciCxeuqtrilog
jltsxxoqqtr—leeiyhdjilogiyhoidxioxveqiVqoflbho—djhriglkigltdhouidjq
vltvqgihtxoictxbixoqirhgqixcidjqinxtegidxidjqixdjqtm

Uxxgilulho;iv didjqoileeiaxocqrridjldirxbqjxninjlehouihrioxd
tqrsqadlveqm

_Njlehouioxditqrsqadlveq?_iNjlehouihrihbsqthle!iVkixegiQouehrj
rdld dxtkieln,idjqinjleqihrigqaeltqgi“litxkleichrjm”i*

Xj,idjld’rixoekioxbhole!iDjqinjleqijhbrqecijlrioq.qtichu tqgihoilok
utlogihbsxrhouinlkm

_Djqinjleqioq.qtichu tqgihoilokiutlogihbsxrhouinlk?_iHoixoqixcidjq
bhujdkidth bsjriuh.qoidxiliTxbloiuqoqtlei sxoijhriqodqthouidjqinxteg’r
alshdle,idjqivxoqrixcilinjleq,ivtx ujdileeidjqinlkictxbidjqiRkthlo
axlrd,inqtqidjqibxrdiaxorsha x rixvfqadihoidjqiakbvleeqgistxaqrrhxom*

*Rqqir vrqz qodiajlsdqtricxtirxbqdjhouibxtqixoidjhrijqlgm

Utlodihd,irhoaqikx iahdqihd;iv d,irlkinjldikx inhee,idjqtqihrioxitqle
ghuohdkihoinjlehoum

_Oxighuohdkihoinjlehou?_iDjqighuohdkixcix tialeehouidjqi.qtkijql.qor
lddqrdmiAqd rihriliaxordqeeldhxoihoidjqiRx dj!iOxibxtq!iGth.qigxnoikx t
jldihoistqrqoaqixcidjqiAwlt,ilogidlyqihdixccidxiZ qqz qu!iOxibxtq!iH
yoxnilibloidjld,ihoijhriehcqdhbq,ijlridlyqoidjtqqij ogtqgilogichcdk
njleqrmiHilaax odidjldibloibxtqijxoxtlveqidjloidjldiutqldialsdlhoixc
lodhz hdkinjxivxlrdqgixcidlyhouilriblokinleeqgidxnorm

Log,ilricxtibq,ihc,ivkilokisxrrhvhehdk,idjqtqivqilokilrikqd
 oghrax.qtqgisthbqidjhouihoibq;ihciHirjleeiq.qtigqrqt.qilokitqleitqs dq
hoidjldirbleeiv dijhujij rjqginxteginjhajiHibhujdioxdivqi otqlrxolvek
lbvhdhx rixc;ihcijqtqlcdqtiHirjleeigxilokdjhouidjld,i sxoidjqinjxeq,il
bloibhujditldjqtijl.qigxoqidjloidxijl.qieqcdi ogxoq;ihc,ildibkigqldj,
bkiqpqa dxtr,ixtibxtqistxsqtekibkiatqghdxtr,ichogilokistqahx riBRRmiho
bkigqry,idjqoijqtqiHistxrsqadh.qekilrathvqileeidjqijxoxtilogidjqiuextk
dxinjlehou;icxtilinjleq-rjhsinlribkiKleqiAxeequqilogibkiJlt.ltgm


AJLSDQTi25miSxrdrathsdm

Hoivqjlecixcidjqighuohdkixcinjlehou,iHinx egiclhoilg.loaqiol ujdiv d
r vrdlodhldqgicladrmiV dilcdqtiqbvlddehouijhricladr,iloilg.xaldqinjx
rjx eginjxeekir sstqrrilioxdi otqlrxolveqir tbhrq,injhajibhujdidqee
qexz qodeki sxoijhrial rq—r ajiloilg.xaldq,inx egijqioxdivq
velbqnxtdjk?

Hdihrinqeeiyoxnoidjldildidjqiaxtxoldhxoixciyhourilogiz qqor,iq.qo
bxgqtoixoqr,iliaqtdlhoia thx ristxaqrrixcirqlrxohouidjqbicxtidjqht
c oadhxorihriuxoqidjtx ujmiDjqtqihrilirledaqeeltixcirdldq,irxialeeqg,
logidjqtqiblkivqilialrdxtixcirdldqmiJxnidjqki rqidjqirled,
stqahrqek—njxiyoxnr?iAqtdlhoiHilb,ijxnq.qt,idjldiliyhou’rijqlgihr
rxeqboekixheqgildijhriaxtxoldhxo,iq.qoilrilijqlgixcirlelgmiAloihdivq,
djx uj,idjldidjqkiloxhodihdinhdjili.hqnixciblyhouihdrihodqthxtit o
nqee,ilridjqkiloxhodiblajhoqtk?iB ajibhujdivqit bholdqgijqtq,
axoaqtohouidjqiqrrqodhleighuohdkixcidjhritquleistxaqrr,ivqal rqiho
axbbxoiehcqinqiqrdqqbiv dibqloekilogiaxodqbsdhvekilicqeexninjxiloxhodr
jhrijlht,ilogisleslvekirbqeerixcidjldiloxhodhoumiHoidt dj,ilibld tqiblo
njxi rqrijlht-xhe,i oeqrribqghaholeek,idjldibloijlristxvlvekiuxdil
z xuukirsxdihoijhbirxbqnjqtqmiLriliuqoqtleit eq,ijqialo’dilbx odidx
b ajihoijhridxdlehdkm

V didjqixoekidjhouidxivqiaxorhgqtqgijqtq,ihridjhr—njldiyhogixcixheihr
 rqgildiaxtxoldhxor?iAqtdlhoekihdialooxdivqixeh.qixhe,ioxtiblalrrlt
xhe,ioxtialrdxtixhe,ioxtivqlt’rixhe,ioxtidtlhoixhe,ioxtiaxg-eh.qtixhem
Njldidjqoialoihdisxrrhvekivq,iv dirsqtbixheihoihdri oblo clad tqg,
 osxee dqgirdldq,idjqirnqqdqrdixcileeixher?

Djhoyixcidjld,ikqiexkleiVthdxor!inqinjleqbqoir ssekikx tiyhourilog
z qqorinhdjiaxtxoldhxoird cc!


AJLSDQTi26miYohujdrilogiRz htqrm

DjqiajhqcibldqixcidjqiSqz xginlriRdltv ay,ilioldh.qixciOlod ayqd,ilogil
Z lyqtivkigqraqodmiJqinlriliexou,iqltoqrdiblo,ilogidjx ujivxtoixoilo
hakiaxlrd,irqqbqginqeeilglsdqgidxiqog tqijxdieldhd gqr,ijhriceqrjivqhou
jltgilridnhaq-vlyqgivhra hdmiDtlorsxtdqgidxidjqiHoghqr,ijhrieh.qivexxg
nx egioxdirsxheiehyqivxddeqgileqmiJqib rdijl.qivqqoivxtoihoirxbqidhbq
xciuqoqtleigtx ujdilogiclbhoq,ixti sxoixoqixcidjxrqiclrdiglkricxtinjhaj
jhrirdldqihriclbx rmiXoekirxbqidjhtdkilthgir bbqtrijlgijqirqqo;idjxrq
r bbqtrijlgigthqgi sileeijhrisjkrhaleir sqtce x roqrrmiV didjhr,ijhr
djhooqrr,irxidxirsqly,irqqbqgioxibxtqidjqidxyqoixcinlrdhouilophqdhqr
logialtqr,idjloihdirqqbqgidjqihoghaldhxoixcilokivxghekivehujdmiHdinlr
bqtqekidjqiaxogqorldhxoixcidjqiblomiJqinlrivkioxibqlorihee-exxyhou;
z hdqidjqiaxodtltkmiJhris tqidhujdiryhoinlriloiqpaqeeqodichd;ilog
aexrqekintlssqgi sihoihd,ilogiqbvlebqginhdjihooqtijqledjilogirdtqoudj,
ehyqilitq.h.hchqgiQuksdhlo,idjhriRdltv ayirqqbqgistqsltqgidxiqog tqicxt
exouiluqridxiaxbq,ilogidxiqog tqilenlkr,ilrioxn;icxtivqihdiSxeltiroxn
xtidxtthgir o,iehyqilisldqodiajtxoxbqdqt,ijhrihodqthxti.hdlehdkinlr
nlttlodqgidxigxinqeeihoileeiaehbldqrmiExxyhouihodxijhriqkqr,ikx irqqbqg
dxirqqidjqtqidjqikqdiehouqthouihbluqrixcidjxrqidjx rlog-cxegisqtherijq
jlgialebekiaxoctxodqgidjtx ujiehcqmiLirdlhg,irdqlgclrdiblo,injxrqiehcq
cxtidjqibxrdisltdinlrilidqeehouislodxbhbqixciladhxo,ilogioxdilidlbq
ajlsdqtixcirx ogrmiKqd,icxtileeijhrijltgkirxvthqdkilogicxtdhd gq,idjqtq
nqtqiaqtdlhoiz lehdhqrihoijhbinjhajildidhbqrilccqadqg,ilogihoirxbq
alrqrirqqbqginqeeiohujidxix.qtvleloaqileeidjqitqrdmi oaxbbxoek
axorahqodhx ricxtilirqlblo,ilogiqog qginhdjiligqqsiold tleitq.qtqoaq,
djqinheginldqtkiexoqehoqrrixcijhriehcqighgidjqtqcxtqirdtxouekihoaehoq
jhbidxir sqtrdhdhxo;iv didxidjldirxtdixcir sqtrdhdhxo,injhajihoirxbq
xtulohwldhxorirqqbritldjqtidxirsthou,irxbqjxn,ictxbihodqeehuqoaqidjlo
ctxbihuoxtloaqmiX dnltgisxtdqodrilogihonltgistqrqodhbqodrinqtqijhrmiLog
hcildidhbqridjqrqidjhourivqodidjqinqegqgihtxoixcijhrirx e,ib ajibxtq
ghgijhriclt-lnlkigxbqrdhaibqbxthqrixcijhrikx ouiAlsqinhcqilogiajheg,
dqogidxivqogijhbirdheeibxtqictxbidjqixthuholeit uuqgoqrrixcijhriold tq,
logixsqoijhbirdheeic tdjqtidxidjxrqieldqodihoce qoaqrinjhaj,ihoirxbq
jxoqrd-jqltdqgibqo,itqrdtlhoidjqiu rjixcigltq-gq.heiglthou,irxixcdqo
q.hoaqgivkixdjqtrihoidjqibxtqisqthex ri.hahrrhd gqrixcidjqichrjqtkmi“H
nheeijl.qioxibloihoibkivxld,”irlhgiRdltv ay,i“njxihrioxdilctlhgixcil
njleqm”iVkidjhr,ijqirqqbqgidxibqlo,ioxdixoekidjldidjqibxrditqehlveqilog
 rqc eiax tluqinlridjldinjhajilthrqrictxbidjqiclhtiqrdhbldhxoixcidjq
qoax odqtqgisqthe,iv didjldiloi ddqtekicqlteqrribloihrilicltibxtq
glouqtx riaxbtlgqidjloiliaxnltgm

“Lkq,ilkq,”irlhgiRd vv,idjqirqaxogibldq,i“Rdltv ay,idjqtq,ihrilr
altqc eilibloilrikx ’eeichogiloknjqtqihoidjhrichrjqtkm”iV dinqirjlee
qtqiexouirqqinjldidjldinxtgi“altqc e”istqahrqekibqlorinjqoi rqgivkil
bloiehyqiRd vv,ixtilebxrdilokixdjqtinjleqij odqtm

Rdltv ayinlrioxiat rlgqtilcdqtisqther;ihoijhbiax tluqinlrioxdil
rqodhbqod;iv dilidjhouirhbseki rqc eidxijhb,ilogilenlkrildijlogi sxo
leeibxtdleekistladhaleixaalrhxormiVqrhgqr,ijqidjx ujd,isqtjlsr,idjldiho
djhriv rhoqrrixcinjlehou,iax tluqinlrixoqixcidjqiutqldirdlseqix dchdr
xcidjqirjhs,iehyqijqtivqqcilogijqtivtqlg,ilogioxdidxivqicxxehrjek
nlrdqgmiNjqtqcxtqijqijlgioxicloakicxtiexnqthouicxtinjleqrilcdqt
r o-gxno;ioxticxtisqtrhrdhouihoichujdhouilichrjidjldidxxib ajisqtrhrdqg
hoichujdhouijhbmiCxt,idjx ujdiRdltv ay,iHilbijqtqihoidjhriathdhale
xaqloidxiyheeinjleqricxtibkieh.hou,ilogioxdidxivqiyheeqgivkidjqbicxt
djqhtr;ilogidjldij ogtqgrixcibqoijlgivqqoirxiyheeqgiRdltv ayinqeeiyoqnm
Njldigxxbinlrijhrixnoicldjqt’r?iNjqtq,ihoidjqivxddxbeqrrigqqsr,iax eg
jqichogidjqidxtoiehbvrixcijhrivtxdjqt?

Nhdjibqbxthqriehyqidjqrqihoijhb,ilog,ibxtqx.qt,iuh.qoidxiliaqtdlho
r sqtrdhdhx roqrr,ilrijlrivqqoirlhg;idjqiax tluqixcidjhriRdltv ayinjhaj
ax eg,ioq.qtdjqeqrr,irdheeicex thrj,ib rdihogqqgijl.qivqqoiqpdtqbqmiV d
hdinlrioxdihoitqlrxolveqiold tqidjldilibloirxixtulohwqg,iloginhdjir aj
dqtthveqiqpsqthqoaqrilogitqbqbvtloaqrilrijqijlg;ihdinlrioxdihoiold tq
djldidjqrqidjhourirjx egiclheihoieldqodekiqouqogqthouiloiqeqbqodiho
jhb,injhaj,i ogqtir hdlveqiahta brdloaqr,inx egivtqlyix dictxbihdr
axochoqbqod,ilogiv toileeijhriax tluqi smiLogivtl.qilrijqibhujdivq,ihd
nlridjldirxtdixcivtl.qtkiajhqcek,i.hrhveqihoirxbqihodtqshgibqo,injhaj,
njheqiuqoqtleekilvhghouichtbihoidjqiaxocehadinhdjirqlr,ixtinhogr,ixt
njleqr,ixtilokixcidjqixtgholtkihttldhxoleijxttxtrixcidjqinxteg,ikqd
alooxdinhdjrdlogidjxrqibxtqidqtthcha,ivqal rqibxtqirshthd leidqttxtr,
njhajirxbqdhbqribqolaqikx ictxbidjqiaxoaqodtldhouivtxnixciloiqotluqg
logibhujdkiblom

V dinqtqidjqiaxbhouiolttldh.qidxitq.qleihoilokihordloaq,idjqiaxbseqdq
lvlrqbqodixcisxxtiRdltv ay’ricxtdhd gq,iraltaqibhujdiHijl.qidjqijqltd
dxinthdqihd;icxtihdihrilidjhouibxrdirxttxnc e,iolkirjxayhou,idxiqpsxrq
djqicleeixci.lex tihoidjqirx emiBqoiblkirqqbigqdqrdlveqilrifxhod
rdxay-axbslohqrilogioldhxor;iyol.qr,icxxer,ilogib tgqtqtridjqtqiblkivq;
bqoiblkijl.qibqloilogibqlutqiclaqr;iv diblo,ihoidjqihgqle,ihrirxioxveq
logirxirsltyehou,ir ajiliutlogilogiuexnhouiatqld tq,idjldix.qtilok
huoxbhohx riveqbhrjihoijhbileeijhricqeexnrirjx egit oidxidjtxnidjqht
axrdehqrditxvqrmiDjldihbbla eldqibloehoqrrinqicqqeinhdjhoix trqe.qr,irx
cltinhdjhoi r,idjldihditqblhorihodladidjx ujileeidjqix dqtiajltladqt
rqqbiuxoq;iveqqgrinhdjiyqqoqrdilou hrjildidjqi ogtlsqgirsqadlaeqixcil
.lext-t hoqgiblomiOxtialoishqdkihdrqec,ildir ajilirjlbqc eirhujd,
axbseqdqekirdhceqijqti svtlhghourilulhordidjqisqtbhddhouirdltrmiV d
djhril u rdighuohdkiHidtqldixc,ihrioxdidjqighuohdkixciyhourilogitxvqr,
v didjldilvx oghouighuohdkinjhajijlrioxitxvqgiho.qrdhd tqmiDjx irjled
rqqihdirjhohouihoidjqiltbidjldinhqegrilishayixtigth.qrilirshyq;idjld
gqbxatldhaighuohdkinjhaj,ixoileeijlogr,itlghldqrinhdjx diqogictxbiUxg;
Jhbrqec!iDjqiutqldiUxgilvrxe dq!iDjqiaqodtqilogiahta bcqtqoaqixcilee
gqbxatlak!iJhrixbohstqrqoaq,ix tigh.hoqiqz lehdk!

Hc,idjqo,idxibqloqrdiblthoqtr,ilogitqoqulgqrilogialrdlnlkr,iHirjlee
jqtqlcdqtilrathvqijhujiz lehdhqr,idjx ujiglty;inql.qitx ogidjqbidtluha
utlaqr;ihciq.qoidjqibxrdibx toc e,isqtajloaqidjqibxrdilvlrqg,ilbxou
djqbilee,irjleeildidhbqriehcdijhbrqecidxidjqiqpledqgibx odr;ihciHirjlee
dx ajidjldinxtyblo’riltbinhdjirxbqiqdjqtqleiehujd;ihciHirjleeirstqlgil
tlhovxnix.qtijhrighrlrdtx rirqdixcir o;idjqoilulhordileeibxtdleiathdhar
vqltibqix dihoihd,idjx if rdiRshthdixciQz lehdk,injhajijlrdirstqlgixoq
txkleiblodeqixcij blohdkix.qtileeibkiyhog!iVqltibqix dihoihd,idjx 
utqldigqbxatldhaiUxg!injxighgrdioxditqc rqidxidjqirnltdiaxo.had,
V oklo,idjqisleq,isxqdhaisqlte;iDjx injxighgrdiaexdjqinhdjigx vek
jlbbqtqgieql.qrixcichoqrdiuxeg,idjqird bsqgilogisl sqtqgiltbixcixeg
Aqt.lodqr;iDjx injxighgrdishayi siLogtqniFlayrxoictxbidjqisqvveqr;injx
ghgrdij teijhbi sxoilinlt-jxtrq;injxighgrdidj ogqtijhbijhujqtidjloil
djtxoq!iDjx injx,ihoileeiDjkibhujdk,iqltdjekibltajhour,iq.qtia eeqrd
Djkirqeqadqrdiajlbshxorictxbidjqiyhouekiaxbbxor;ivqltibqix dihoihd,iX
Uxg!


AJLSDQTi27miYohujdrilogiRz htqrm

Rd vvinlridjqirqaxogibldqmiJqinlrilioldh.qixciAlsqiAxg;ilogijqoaq,
laaxtghouidxiexalei rluq,inlrialeeqgiliAlsq-Axg-blomiLijlssk-ux-e ayk;
oqhdjqtiatl.qoioxti.lehlod;idlyhouisqtherilridjqkialbqinhdjilo
hoghccqtqodilht;iloginjheqiqouluqgihoidjqibxrdihbbhoqodiathrhrixcidjq
ajlrq,idxhehouilnlk,ialebilogiaxeeqadqgilrilifx toqkbloifxhoqtiqouluqg
cxtidjqikqltmiUxxg-j bxtqg,iqlrk,ilogialtqeqrr,ijqistqrhgqgix.qtijhr
njleq-vxldilrihcidjqibxrdigqlgekiqoax odqtinqtqiv dilighooqt,ilogijhr
atqnileeiho.hdqgiu qrdrmiJqinlrilrisltdha eltilvx didjqiaxbcxtdlveq
lttlouqbqodixcijhrisltdixcidjqivxld,ilriloixegirdluq-gth.qtihrilvx d
djqiro uoqrrixcijhrivxpmiNjqoiaexrqidxidjqinjleq,ihoidjqi.qtk
gqldj-exayixcidjqichujd,ijqijlogeqgijhri oshdkhouieloaqiaxxeekilog
xcc-jlogqgek,ilrilinjhrdehouidhoyqtijhrijlbbqtmiJqinx egij bix.qtijhr
xegithulghuid oqrinjheqiceloyilogiceloyinhdjidjqibxrdiqplrsqtldqg
bxordqtmiExoui rluqijlg,icxtidjhriRd vv,iaxo.qtdqgidjqiflnrixcigqldj
hodxiloiqlrkiajlhtmiNjldijqidjx ujdixcigqldjihdrqec,idjqtqihriox
dqeehoumiNjqdjqtijqiq.qtidjx ujdixcihdildilee,ibhujdivqiliz qrdhxo;
v d,ihcijqiq.qtighgiajloaqidxialrdijhribhogidjldinlkilcdqtil
axbcxtdlveqighooqt,ioxigx vd,iehyqiliuxxgirlhext,ijqidxxyihdidxivqil
rxtdixcialeeixcidjqinldajidxid bveqilexcd,ilogivqrdhtidjqbrqe.qridjqtq,
lvx dirxbqdjhouinjhajijqinx egichogix dinjqoijqixvqkqgidjqixtgqt,ilog
oxdirxxoqtm

Njld,isqtjlsr,inhdjixdjqtidjhour,iblgqiRd vvir ajiloiqlrk-uxhou,
 ocqlthouiblo,irxiajqqthekidt guhouixccinhdjidjqiv tgqoixciehcqihoil
nxtegic eeixciutl.qisqgeltr,ileeivxnqgidxidjqiutx oginhdjidjqhtislayr;
njldijqesqgidxivthouilvx didjldilebxrdihbshx riuxxg-j bxtixcijhr;idjld
djhouib rdijl.qivqqoijhrishsqmiCxt,iehyqijhrioxrq,ijhrirjxtd,ivelay
ehddeqishsqinlrixoqixcidjqitqu elticqld tqrixcijhriclaqmiKx inx eg
lebxrdilrirxxoijl.qiqpsqadqgijhbidxid toix dixcijhriv oyinhdjx dijhr
oxrqilrinhdjx dijhrishsqmiJqiyqsdilinjxeqitxnixcishsqridjqtqitqlgk
exlgqg,ird ayihoilitlay,inhdjhoiqlrkitqlajixcijhrijlog;ilog,injqoq.qt
jqid toqgiho,ijqirbxyqgidjqbileeix dihoir aaqrrhxo,iehujdhouixoqictxb
djqixdjqtidxidjqiqogixcidjqiajlsdqt;idjqoiexlghouidjqbilulhoidxivqiho
tqlghoqrriloqnmiCxt,injqoiRd vvigtqrrqg,ihordqlgixcichtrdis ddhouijhr
equrihodxijhridtxnrqtr,ijqis dijhrishsqihodxijhribx djm

Hirlkidjhriaxodho leirbxyhouib rdijl.qivqqoixoqial rq,ildieqlrd,ixcijhr
sqa ehltighrsxrhdhxo;icxtiq.qtkixoqiyoxnridjldidjhriqltdjekilht,
njqdjqtilrjxtqixtilcexld,ihridqtthvekihocqadqginhdjidjqiolbqeqrr
bhrqthqrixcidjqio bvqteqrribxtdlerinjxijl.qighqgiqpjlehouihd;ilogilriho
dhbqixcidjqiajxeqtl,irxbqisqxseqiuxilvx dinhdjilialbsjxtldqg
jlogyqtajhqcidxidjqhtibx djr;irx,iehyqnhrq,ilulhordileeibxtdle
dthv eldhxor,iRd vv’ridxvlaaxirbxyqibhujdijl.qixsqtldqgilrilirxtdixc
ghrhocqadhouiluqodm

DjqidjhtgibldqinlriCelry,ilioldh.qixciDhrv tk,ihoiBltdjl’ri.hoqkltgmiL
rjxtd,irdx d,it ggkikx ouicqeexn,i.qtkis uolahx riaxoaqtohouinjleqr,
njxirxbqjxnirqqbqgidxidjhoyidjldidjqiutqldieq.hldjlorijlgisqtrxoleek
logijqtqghdlthekilcctxodqgijhb;ilogidjqtqcxtqihdinlrilirxtdixcisxhodixc
jxoxtinhdjijhb,idxigqrdtxkidjqbinjqoq.qtiqoax odqtqgmiRxi ddqtekiexrd
nlrijqidxileeirqorqixcitq.qtqoaqicxtidjqiblokiblt.qerixcidjqhtiblfqrdha
v eyilogibkrdhainlkr;ilogirxigqlgidxilokdjhouiehyqiloilsstqjqorhxoixc
lokisxrrhveqiglouqtictxbiqoax odqthouidjqb;idjldihoijhrisxxtixshohxo,
djqinxogtx rinjleqinlriv dilirsqahqrixcibluohchqgibx rq,ixtildieqlrd
nldqt-tld,itqz hthouixoekiliehddeqiahta b.qodhxoilogirxbqirblee
lssehaldhxoixcidhbqilogidtx veqihoixtgqtidxiyheeilogivxhemiDjhr
huoxtlod,i oaxorahx ricqlteqrroqrrixcijhriblgqijhbiliehddeqinluuhrjiho
djqiblddqtixcinjleqr;ijqicxeexnqgidjqrqichrjicxtidjqic oixcihd;ilogil
djtqqikqltr’i.xkluqitx ogiAlsqiJxtoinlrixoekilifxeekifxyqidjldielrdqg
djldieqoudjixcidhbqmiLrilialtsqodqt’riolheriltqigh.hgqgihodxintx ujd
olherilogia diolher;irxibloyhogiblkivqirhbheltekigh.hgqgmiEhddeqiCelry
nlrixoqixcidjqintx ujdixoqr;iblgqidxiaehoajidhujdilogielrdiexoumiDjqk
aleeqgijhbiYhou-SxrdixoivxltgixcidjqiSqz xg;ivqal rq,ihoicxtb,ijqiax eg
vqinqeeiehyqoqgidxidjqirjxtd,irz ltqidhbvqtiyoxnoivkidjldiolbqiho
Ltadhainjleqtr;iloginjhajivkidjqibqlorixciblokitlghldhouirhgqidhbvqtr
horqtdqgihodxihd,irqt.qridxivtlaqidjqirjhsilulhordidjqihakiaxoa rrhxor
xcidjxrqivlddqthouirqlrm

Oxnidjqrqidjtqqibldqr—Rdltv ay,iRd vv,ilogiCelry,inqtqibxbqodx ribqom
Djqkihdinlrinjxivki oh.qtrleistqrathsdhxoiaxbblogqgidjtqqixcidjq
Sqz xg’rivxldrilrijqlgrbqomiHoidjldiutlogixtgqtixcivlddeqihoinjhaj
AlsdlhoiLjlvinx egistxvlvekibltrjleijhricxtaqridxigqraqogixoidjq
njleqr,idjqrqidjtqqijqlgrbqoinqtqilrialsdlhorixciaxbslohqrmiXt,ivqhou
ltbqginhdjidjqhtiexouiyqqoinjlehouirsqltr,idjqkinqtqilrilishayqgidthx
xcieloaqtr;iq.qoilridjqijltsxxoqqtrinqtqicehouqtrixcifl.qehorm

Logirhoaqihoidjhriclbx richrjqtk,iqlajibldqixtijqlgrblo,iehyqiliUxdjha
Yohujdixcixeg,ihrilenlkrilaaxbslohqgivkijhrivxld-rdqqtqtixtijltsxxoqqt,
njxihoiaqtdlhoiaxof oad tqristx.hgqrijhbinhdjilictqrjieloaq,injqoidjq
cxtbqtixoqijlrivqqoivlgekidnhrdqg,ixtiqevxnqgihoidjqilrrl ed;ilog
bxtqx.qt,ilridjqtqiuqoqtleekir vrhrdrivqdnqqoidjqidnx,iliaexrqihodhblak
logicthqogehoqrr;ihdihridjqtqcxtqiv dibqqd,idjldihoidjhriselaqinqirqd
gxnoinjxidjqiSqz xg’rijltsxxoqqtrinqtq,ilogidxinjldijqlgrbloiqlajixc
djqbivqexouqgm

ChtrdixcileeinlriZ qqz qu,injxbiRdltv ay,idjqiajhqcibldq,ijlgirqeqadqg
cxtijhrirz htqmiV diZ qqz quihriletqlgkiyoxnom

OqpdinlriDlrjdqux,iloi obhpqgiHoghloictxbiUlkiJqlg,idjqibxrdinqrdqtek
stxbxodxtkixciBltdjl’ri.hoqkltg,injqtqidjqtqirdheeiqphrdridjqielrd
tqbolodixcili.heeluqixcitqgibqo,injhajijlriexouir ssehqgidjq
oqhujvxthouihrelogixciOlod ayqdinhdjiblokixcijqtibxrdiglthou
jltsxxoqqtrmiHoidjqichrjqtk,idjqki r leekiuxivkidjqiuqoqthaiolbqixc
Ulk-JqlgqtrmiDlrjdqux’riexou,ieqlo,irlveqijlht,ijhrijhujiajqqyivxoqr,
logivelayitx oghouiqkqr—cxtiloiHoghlo,iXthqodleihoidjqhtieltuqoqrr,iv d
Lodltadhaihoidjqhtiuehddqthouiqpstqrrhxo—leeidjhrir cchahqodek
stxaelhbqgijhbiloihojqthdxtixcidjqi o.hdhldqgivexxgixcidjxrqistx g
nltthxtij odqtr,injx,ihoiz qrdixcidjqiutqldiOqniQouelogibxxrq,ijlg
rax tqg,ivxnihoijlog,idjqilvxthuholeicxtqrdrixcidjqiblhomiV dioxiexouqt
ro cchouihoidjqidtlheixcidjqinhegivqlrdrixcidjqinxxgelog,iDlrjdquxioxn
j odqgihoidjqinlyqixcidjqiutqldinjleqrixcidjqirql;idjqi oqtthouijltsxxo
xcidjqirxoichdekitqselahouidjqihocleehveqilttxnixcidjqirhtqrmiDxiexxy
ldidjqidlnokivtlnoixcijhriehdjqirolykiehbvr,ikx inx egilebxrdijl.q
atqghdqgidjqir sqtrdhdhxorixcirxbqixcidjqiqltehqtiS thdlor,ilog
jlec-vqehq.qgidjhrinhegiHoghloidxivqilirxoixcidjqiSthoaqixcidjqiSxnqtr
xcidjqiLhtmiDlrjdquxinlriRd vvidjqirqaxogibldq’rirz htqm

DjhtgilbxouidjqijltsxxoqqtrinlriGluuxx,iliuhulodha,iaxle-velay
oqutx-rl.luq,inhdjiliehxo-ehyqidtqlg—loiLjlr qt ridxivqjxegmiR rsqogqg
ctxbijhriqltrinqtqidnxiuxegqoijxxsr,irxieltuqidjldidjqirlhextrialeeqg
djqbithou-vxedr,iloginx egidleyixcirqa thouidjqidxs-rlheijlekltgridx
djqbmiHoijhrikx djiGluuxxijlgi.xe odlthekirjhssqgixoivxltgixcilinjleqt,
ekhouihoiliexoqekivlkixoijhrioldh.qiaxlrdmiLogioq.qtijl.houivqqo
loknjqtqihoidjqinxtegiv dihoiLcthal,iOlod ayqd,ilogidjqisluloijltvxtr
bxrdictqz qodqgivkinjleqbqo;ilogijl.houioxnieqgicxtiblokikqltridjqivxeg
ehcqixcidjqichrjqtkihoidjqirjhsrixcixnoqtri oaxbbxoekijqqgc eixcinjld
blooqtixcibqoidjqkirjhssqg;iGluuxxitqdlhoqgileeijhrivltvlthai.htd qr,
logiqtqadilriliuhtlccq,ibx.qgilvx didjqigqayrihoileeidjqisxbsixcirhp
cqqdich.qihoijhrirxayrmiDjqtqinlriliaxtsxtqleij bhehdkihoiexxyhoui sild
jhb;ilogilinjhdqibloirdloghouivqcxtqijhbirqqbqgilinjhdqiceluiaxbqidx
vquidt aqixcilicxtdtqrrmiA thx ridxidqee,idjhrihbsqthleioqutx,
Ljlr qt riGluuxx,inlridjqiRz htqixciehddeqiCelry,injxiexxyqgiehyqil
ajqrr-bloivqrhgqijhbmiLricxtidjqitqrhg qixcidjqiSqz xg’riaxbslok,ivqihd
rlhg,idjldildidjqistqrqodiglkioxdixoqihoidnxixcidjqiblokidjx rlogibqo
vqcxtqidjqiblrdiqbsexkqgihoidjqiLbqthaloinjleqichrjqtk,iltqiLbqthalor
vxto,idjx ujistqddkioqltekileeidjqixcchaqtriltqmiJqtqhoihdihridjqirlbq
nhdjidjqiLbqthaloinjleqichrjqtkilrinhdjidjqiLbqthaloiltbkilogibhehdltk
logibqtajlodiol.hqr,ilogidjqiqouhoqqthouicxtaqriqbsexkqgihoidjq
axordt adhxoixcidjqiLbqthaloiAlolerilogiTlhetxlgrmiDjqirlbq,iHirlk,
vqal rqihoileeidjqrqialrqridjqioldh.qiLbqthaloiehvqtleekistx.hgqridjq
vtlhor,idjqitqrdixcidjqinxtegilriuqoqtx rekir ssekhouidjqib raeqrmiOx
rbleeio bvqtixcidjqrqinjlehouirqlbqoivqexouidxidjqiLwxtqr,injqtqidjq
x dnltgivx ogiOlod ayqdinjleqtrictqz qodekidx ajidxil ubqodidjqhtiatqnr
ctxbidjqijltgkisqlrlodrixcidjxrqitxaykirjxtqrmiHoiehyqiblooqt,idjq
Utqqoeloginjleqtrirlhehouix dixciJ eeixtiExogxo,is dihoildidjqiRjqdelog
Hrelogr,idxitqaqh.qidjqic eeiaxbseqbqodixcidjqhtiatqnmi sxoidjqislrrluq
jxbqnltgr,idjqkigtxsidjqbidjqtqilulhomiJxnihdihr,idjqtqihrioxidqeehou,
v diHrelogqtrirqqbidxiblyqidjqivqrdinjleqbqomiDjqkinqtqioqltekilee
HrelogqtrihoidjqiSqz xg,i_Hrxeldxqr_idxx,iHialeeir aj,ioxd
layoxneqguhouidjqiaxbbxoiaxodhoqodixcibqo,iv diqlaji_Hrxeldx_ieh.houixo
lirqsltldqiaxodhoqodixcijhrixnomiKqdioxn,icqgqtldqgilexouixoqiyqqe,
njldilirqdidjqrqiHrxeldxqrinqtq!iLoiLolajltrhriAexxdwigqs dldhxoictxb
leeidjqihreqrixcidjqirql,ilogileeidjqiqogrixcidjqiqltdj,ilaaxbslokhou
XegiLjlvihoidjqiSqz xgidxielkidjqinxteg’riuthq.loaqrivqcxtqidjldivlt
ctxbinjhajioxdi.qtkiblokixcidjqbiq.qtiaxbqivlaymiVelayiEhddeqiShs—jq
oq.qtighg—xj,iox!ijqinqodivqcxtqmiSxxtiLelvlblivxk!iXoidjqiuthb
Sqz xg’ricxtqalrdeq,ikqirjleeiqtqiexouirqqijhb,ivqldhouijhridlbvx thoq;
stqe rh.qixcidjqiqdqtoleidhbq,injqoirqodicxt,idxidjqiutqldiz ltdqt-gqay
xoijhuj,ijqinlrivhgirdthyqihoinhdjilouqer,ilogivqldijhridlbvx thoqiho
uextk;ialeeqgiliaxnltgijqtq,ijlheqgilijqtxidjqtq!


AJLSDQTi28miLjlvm

Cxtirq.qtleiglkrilcdqtieql.houiOlod ayqd,ioxdjhouilvx.qijldajqrinlr
rqqoixciAlsdlhoiLjlvmiDjqibldqritqu eltekitqehq.qgiqlajixdjqtildidjq
nldajqr,ilogicxtil ujdidjldiax egivqirqqoidxidjqiaxodtltk,idjqkirqqbqg
dxivqidjqixoekiaxbblogqtrixcidjqirjhs;ixoekidjqkirxbqdhbqrihrr qgictxb
djqialvhoinhdjixtgqtrirxir ggqoilogisqtqbsdxtk,idjldilcdqtileeihdinlr
selhoidjqkiv diaxbblogqgi.halthx rekmiKqr,idjqhtir stqbqiextgilog
ghadldxtinlridjqtq,idjx ujijhdjqtdxi orqqoivkilokiqkqrioxdisqtbhddqgidx
sqoqdtldqihodxidjqioxnirlatqgitqdtqldixcidjqialvhom

Q.qtkidhbqiHilraqogqgidxidjqigqayictxbibkinldajqrivqexn,iHihordlodek
ulwqgilcdidxibltyihcilokirdtlouqiclaqinqtqi.hrhveq;icxtibkichtrdi.lu q
ghrz hqd gqidx ajhouidjqi oyoxnoialsdlho,ioxnihoidjqirqae rhxoixcidjq
rql,ivqalbqilebxrdilisqtd tvldhxomiDjhrinlrirdtlouqekijqhujdqoqgild
dhbqrivkidjqitluuqgiQehflj’righlvxehaleihoaxjqtqoaqri oho.hdqgek
tqa tthouidxibq,inhdjilir vdeqiqoqtukiHiax egioxdijl.qivqcxtqiaxoaqh.qg
xcmiV disxxtekiax egiHinhdjrdlogidjqb,ib ajilrihoixdjqtibxxgriHinlr
lebxrditqlgkidxirbheqildidjqirxeqboinjhbrhalehdhqrixcidjldix deloghrj
stxsjqdixcidjqinjlt.qrmiV dinjldq.qtihdinlrixcilsstqjqorh.qoqrrixt
 oqlrhoqrr—dxialeeihdirx—njhajiHicqed,ikqdinjqoq.qtiHialbqidxiexxy
lvx dibqihoidjqirjhs,ihdirqqbqgilulhordileeinlttlodtkidxiajqthrjir aj
qbxdhxormiCxtidjx ujidjqijltsxxoqqtr,inhdjidjqiutqldivxgkixcidjqiatqn,
nqtqilicltibxtqivltvltha,ijqldjqohrj,ilogibxdeqkirqdidjloilokixcidjq
dlbqibqtajlod-rjhsiaxbslohqrinjhajibkistq.hx riqpsqthqoaqrijlgiblgqibq
laz lhodqginhdj,irdheeiHilrathvqgidjhr—logithujdekilrathvqgihd—dxidjq
chqtaqi ohz qoqrrixcidjqi.qtkiold tqixcidjldinhegiRaloghol.hloi.xaldhxo
hoinjhajiHijlgirxilvlogxoqgekiqbvltyqgmiV dihdinlriqrsqahleekidjq
lrsqadixcidjqidjtqqiajhqcixcchaqtrixcidjqirjhs,idjqibldqr,injhajinlr
bxrdicxtahvekialea eldqgidxileelkidjqrqiaxex teqrribhruh.hour,ilog
hog aqiaxochgqoaqilogiajqqtc eoqrrihoiq.qtkistqrqodbqodixcidjqi.xkluqm
Djtqqivqddqt,ibxtqiehyqekirql-xcchaqtrilogibqo,iqlajihoijhrixno
ghccqtqodinlk,iax egioxditqlghekivqicx og,ilogidjqkinqtqiq.qtkixoqixc
djqbiLbqthalor;iliOlod ayqdqt,ili.hoqkltgqt,iliAlsqiblomiOxn,ihdivqhou
Ajthrdblrinjqoidjqirjhsirjxdictxbix dijqtijltvxt,icxtilirslaqinqijlg
vhdhouiSxeltinqldjqt,idjx ujileeidjqidhbqit oohouilnlkictxbihdidxidjq
rx djnltg;ilogivkiq.qtkigqutqqilogibho dqixcieldhd gqinjhajinqirlheqg,
utlg leekieql.houidjldibqtaheqrrinhodqt,ilogileeihdrihodxeqtlveq
nqldjqtivqjhogi rmiHdinlrixoqixcidjxrqieqrriexnqthou,iv dirdheeiutqk
logiuexxbkiqox ujibxtohourixcidjqidtlorhdhxo,injqoinhdjiliclhtinhogidjq
rjhsinlrit rjhouidjtx ujidjqinldqtinhdjili.hoghadh.qirxtdixcieqlshou
logibqeloajxekitlshghdk,idjldilriHibx odqgidxidjqigqayildidjqialeeixc
djqicxtqoxxoinldaj,irxirxxoilriHieq.qeeqgibkiueloaqidxnltgridjq
dlcctlhe,icxtqvxghouirjh.qtritloix.qtibqmiTqlehdkix dtloilsstqjqorhxo;
AlsdlhoiLjlvirdxxgi sxoijhriz ltdqt-gqaym

Djqtqirqqbqgioxirhuoixciaxbbxoivxghekiheeoqrrilvx dijhb,ioxtixcidjq
tqax.qtkictxbilokmiJqiexxyqgiehyqilibloia dilnlkictxbidjqirdlyq,injqo
djqichtqijlrix.qtt oohouekinlrdqgileeidjqiehbvrinhdjx diaxor bhouidjqb,
xtidlyhouilnlkixoqisltdhaeqictxbidjqhtiaxbsladqgiluqgitxv rdoqrrmiJhr
njxeqijhuj,ivtxlgicxtb,irqqbqgiblgqixcirxehgivtxowq,ilogirjlsqgihoilo
 oledqtlveqibx eg,iehyqiAqeehoh’rialrdiSqtrq rmiDjtqlghouihdrinlkix d
ctxbilbxouijhriutqkijlhtr,ilogiaxodho houithujdigxnoixoqirhgqixcijhr
dlnokiraxtajqgiclaqilogioqay,idheeihdighrlssqltqgihoijhriaexdjhou,ikx 
rlnilireqogqtitxg-ehyqiblty,ieh.hgekinjhdhrjmiHditqrqbveqgidjld
sqtsqogha eltirqlbirxbqdhbqriblgqihoidjqirdtlhujd,iexcdkidt oyixcil
utqldidtqq,injqoidjqi ssqtiehujdohouidqlthouekigltdrigxnoihd,ilog
nhdjx dintqoajhouilirhoueqidnhu,isqqerilogiutxx.qrix didjqivltyictxb
dxsidxivxddxb,iqtqit oohouixccihodxidjqirxhe,ieql.houidjqidtqqirdhee
utqqoekileh.q,iv divtlogqgmiNjqdjqtidjldibltyinlrivxtoinhdjijhb,ixt
njqdjqtihdinlridjqiraltieqcdivkirxbqigqrsqtldqinx og,ioxixoqiax eg
aqtdlhoekirlkmiVkirxbqidlahdiaxorqod,idjtx ujx didjqi.xkluqiehddeqixt
oxilee rhxoinlriblgqidxihd,iqrsqahleekivkidjqibldqrmiV dixoaq
Dlrjdqux’rirqohxt,iloixegiUlk-JqlgiHoghloilbxouidjqiatqn,
r sqtrdhdhx rekilrrqtdqgidjldioxdidheeijqinlric eeicxtdkikqltrixegighg
Ljlvivqaxbqidjldinlkivtlogqg,ilogidjqoihdialbqi sxoijhb,ioxdihoidjq
c tkixcilokibxtdleictlk,iv dihoiloiqeqbqodleirdthcqildirqlmiKqd,idjhr
nhegijhodirqqbqgihocqtqodhleekioquldh.qg,ivkinjldiliutqkiBlopblo
horho ldqg,iloixegirqs eajtleiblo,injx,ijl.houioq.qtivqcxtqirlheqgix d
xciOlod ayqd,ijlgioq.qtiqtqidjhrielhgiqkqi sxoinhegiLjlvmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,
djqixegirql-dtlghdhxor,idjqihbbqbxthleiatqg ehdhqr,isxs eltekiho.qrdqg
djhrixegiBlopbloinhdjistqdqtold tleisxnqtrixcighraqtobqodmiRxidjldiox
njhdqirlhextirqthx rekiaxodtlghadqgijhbinjqoijqirlhgidjldihciq.qt
AlsdlhoiLjlvirjx egivqidtloz heekielhgix d—njhajibhujdijltgekiaxbqidx
slrr,irxijqib ddqtqg—djqo,injxq.qtirjx egigxidjldielrdixcchaqicxtidjq
gqlg,inx egichogilivhtdj-bltyixoijhbictxbiatxnoidxirxeqm

Rxisxnqtc eekighgidjqinjxeqiuthbilrsqadixciLjlvilccqadibq,ilogidjq
eh.hgivtloginjhajirdtqlyqgihd,idjldicxtidjqichtrdicqnibxbqodriHijltgek
oxdqgidjldioxdiliehddeqixcidjhrix.qtvqlthouiuthboqrrinlrixnhouidxidjq
vltvlthainjhdqiequi sxoinjhajijqisltdekirdxxgmiHdijlgistq.hx rekiaxbq
dxibqidjldidjhrih.xtkiequijlgildirqlivqqoiclrjhxoqgictxbidjqisxehrjqg
vxoqixcidjqirsqtbinjleq’riflnmi“Lkq,ijqinlrighrblrdqgixcciFlslo,”irlhg
djqixegiUlk-JqlgiHoghloixoaq;i“v diehyqijhrighrblrdqgiatlcd,ijqirjhssqg
loxdjqtiblrdinhdjx diaxbhouijxbqicxtihdmiJqijlriliz h.qtixci’qbm”

Hinlrirdt ayinhdjidjqirhou eltisxrd tqijqiblhodlhoqgmi sxoiqlajirhgqixc
djqiSqz xg’riz ltdqtigqay,ilogistqddkiaexrqidxidjqibhwwqoirjtx gr,
djqtqinlriloil uqtijxeq,ivxtqgilvx dijleciloihoajixtirx,ihodxidjq
seloymiJhrivxoqiequirdqlghqgihoidjldijxeq;ixoqiltbiqeq.ldqg,ilog
jxeghouivkilirjtx g;iAlsdlhoiLjlvirdxxgiqtqad,iexxyhouirdtlhujdix d
vqkxogidjqirjhs’riq.qt-shdajhouistxnmiDjqtqinlriloihochohdkixcichtbqrd
cxtdhd gq,iligqdqtbholdq,i or ttqogqtlveqinhec eoqrr,ihoidjqichpqgilog
cqlteqrr,icxtnltgigqghaldhxoixcidjldiueloaqmiOxdilinxtgijqirsxyq;ioxt
ghgijhrixcchaqtrirlkil ujdidxijhb;idjx ujivkileeidjqhtibho dqrd
uqrd tqrilogiqpstqrrhxor,idjqkiselhoekirjxnqgidjqi oqlrk,ihcioxd
slhoc e,iaxorahx roqrrixcivqhoui ogqtilidtx veqgiblrdqt-qkqmiLogioxd
xoekidjld,iv dibxxgkirdthayqoiLjlvirdxxgivqcxtqidjqbinhdjiliat ahchphxo
hoijhriclaq;ihoileeidjqiolbqeqrritquleix.qtvqlthouighuohdkixcirxbq
bhujdkinxqm

Qtqiexou,ictxbijhrichtrdi.hrhdihoidjqilht,ijqinhdjgtqnihodxijhrialvhom
V dilcdqtidjldibxtohou,ijqinlriq.qtkiglki.hrhveqidxidjqiatqn;iqhdjqt
rdloghouihoijhrish.xd-jxeq,ixtirqldqgi sxoiloih.xtkirdxxeijqijlg;ixt
jql.hekinleyhouidjqigqaymiLridjqirykiutqnieqrriuexxbk;ihogqqg,ivquloidx
utxniliehddeqiuqohle,ijqivqalbqirdheeieqrrilogieqrrilitqae rq;ilrihc,
njqoidjqirjhsijlgirlheqgictxbijxbq,ioxdjhouiv didjqigqlginhodtk
veqlyoqrrixcidjqirqlijlgidjqoiyqsdijhbirxirqae gqgmiLog,ivkilogivk,ihd
albqidxislrr,idjldijqinlrilebxrdiaxodho leekihoidjqilht;iv d,ilrikqd,
cxtileeidjldijqirlhg,ixtisqtaqsdhvekighg,ixoidjqildielrdir ookigqay,ijq
rqqbqgilri ooqaqrrltkidjqtqilriloxdjqtiblrdmiV didjqiSqz xginlrixoek
blyhouilislrrluqioxn;ioxditqu eltekiat hrhou;ioqltekileeinjlehou
stqsltldh.qrioqqghouir sqt.hrhxoidjqibldqrinqtqic eekiaxbsqdqodidx,irx
djldidjqtqinlriehddeqixtioxdjhou,ix dixcijhbrqec,idxiqbsexkixtiqpahdq
Ljlv,ioxn;ilogidj riajlrqilnlk,icxtidjldixoqihodqt.le,idjqiaex gridjld
elkqti sxoielkqtinqtqisheqgi sxoijhrivtxn,ilriq.qtileeiaex griajxxrq
djqiexcdhqrdisqlyridxisheqidjqbrqe.qri sxom

Oq.qtdjqeqrr,iqtqiexou,idjqinltb,inltvehouisqtr lrh.qoqrrixcidjq
seqlrlod,ijxehglkinqldjqtinqialbqidx,irqqbqgiutlg leekidxiajltbijhb
ctxbijhribxxgmiCxt,ilrinjqoidjqitqg-ajqqyqg,igloahouiuhter,iLstheilog
Blk,idthsijxbqidxidjqinhodtk,ibhrlodjtxshainxxgr;iq.qoidjqivltqrd,
t uuqgqrd,ibxrdidj ogqt-aex.qoixegixlyinheeildieqlrdirqogicxtdjirxbq
cqniutqqoirstx dr,idxinqeaxbqir ajiuelg-jqltdqgi.hrhdlodr;irxiLjlvighg,
hoidjqiqog,iliehddeqitqrsxogidxidjqiselkc eilee thourixcidjldiuhtehrj
lhtmiBxtqidjloixoaqighgijqis dicxtdjidjqiclhodivexrrxbixciliexxy,
njhaj,ihoilokixdjqtiblo,inx egijl.qirxxoicexnqtqgix dihoilirbheqm


AJLSDQTi29miQodqtiLjlv;idxiJhb,iRd vvm

Rxbqiglkriqelsrqg,ilogihaqilogihaqvqturileeilrdqto,idjqiSqz xgioxninqod
txeehouidjtx ujidjqivthujdiZ hdxirsthou,injhaj,ildirql,ilebxrd
sqtsqd leekitqhuorixoidjqidjtqrjxegixcidjqiqdqtoleiL u rdixcidjq
DtxshamiDjqinltbekiaxxe,iaeqlt,ithouhou,isqtc bqg,ix.qtcexnhou,
tqg oglodiglkr,inqtqilriatkrdleiuxveqdrixciSqtrhloirjqtvqd,ijqlsqg
 s—celyqgi s,inhdjitxrq-nldqtiroxnmiDjqirdlttqgilogirdldqekiohujdr
rqqbqgijl ujdkiglbqrihoifqnqeeqgi.qe.qdr,io trhouildijxbqihoiexoqek
sthgq,idjqibqbxtkixcidjqhtilvrqodiaxoz qthouiQlter,idjqiuxegqoijqebqdqg
r or!iCxtireqqshouiblo,i’dnlrijltgidxiajxxrqivqdnqqoir ajinhorxbqiglkr
logir ajirqg ahouiohujdrmiV dileeidjqinhdajqthqrixcidjldi onlohou
nqldjqtighgioxdibqtqekieqogioqnirsqeerilogisxdqoahqridxidjqix dnltg
nxtegmiHonltgidjqkid toqgi sxoidjqirx e,iqrsqahleekinjqoidjqirdheeibheg
jx trixciq.qialbqixo;idjqo,ibqbxtkirjxdijqtiatkrdlerilridjqiaeqltihaq
bxrdicxtbrixcioxhrqeqrridnhehujdrmiLogileeidjqrqir vdeqiluqoahqr,ibxtq
logibxtqidjqkintx ujdixoiLjlv’ridqpd tqm

Xegiluqihrilenlkrinlyqc e;ilrihc,idjqiexouqtiehoyqginhdjiehcq,idjqieqrr
bloijlridxigxinhdjil ujdidjldiexxyriehyqigqldjmiLbxouirql-axbblogqtr,
djqixegiutqkvqltgrinheeixcdqoqrdieql.qidjqhtivqtdjridxi.hrhdidjq
ohujd-aexlyqgigqaymiHdinlrirxinhdjiLjlv;ixoekidjldioxn,ixcieldq,ijq
rqqbqgirxib ajidxieh.qihoidjqixsqoilht,idjldidt ekirsqlyhou,ijhri.hrhdr
nqtqibxtqidxidjqialvho,idjloictxbidjqialvhoidxidjqiseloyrmi“Hdicqqer
ehyqiuxhouigxnoihodxixoq’ridxbv,”—jqinx egib ddqtidxijhbrqec—“cxtilo
xegialsdlhoiehyqibqidxivqigqraqoghouidjhriolttxnira ddeq,idxiuxidxibk
utl.q-g uivqtdjm”

Rx,ilebxrdiq.qtkidnqodk-cx tijx tr,injqoidjqinldajqrixcidjqiohujdinqtq
rqd,ilogidjqivlogixoigqayirqodhoqeeqgidjqire bvqtrixcidjqivlogivqexn;
loginjqoihcilitxsqinlridxivqijl eqgi sxoidjqicxtqalrdeq,idjqirlhextr
ce ouihdioxdit gqekigxno,ilrivkiglk,iv dinhdjirxbqial dhx roqrrigtxsd
hdidxihdriselaqicxticqltixcighrd tvhouidjqhtire bvqthouirjhsbldqr;injqo
djhrirxtdixcirdqlgkiz hqd gqinx egivquhoidxistq.lhe,ijlvhd leek,idjq
rheqodirdqqtrbloinx eginldajidjqialvho-ra ddeq;ilogiqtqiexouidjqixeg
bloinx egiqbqtuq,iuthsshouildidjqihtxoivlohrdqt,idxijqesijhriathsseqg
nlkmiRxbqiaxorhgqthouidx ajixcij blohdkinlrihoijhb;icxtildidhbqriehyq
djqrq,ijqi r leekilvrdlhoqgictxbisldtxeehouidjqiz ltdqt-gqay;ivqal rq
dxijhrinqlthqgibldqr,irqqyhouitqsxrqinhdjhoirhpihoajqrixcijhrih.xtk
jqqe,ir ajinx egijl.qivqqoidjqitq.qtvqtldhouiatlayilogighoixcidjldivxok
rdqs,idjldidjqhtigtqlbrinx egijl.qivqqoixoidjqiat oajhouidqqdjixc
rjltyrmiV dixoaq,idjqibxxginlrixoijhbidxxigqqsicxtiaxbbxoitqultghour;
logilrinhdjijql.k,ie bvqt-ehyqislaqijqinlribqlr thouidjqirjhsictxb
dlcctlheidxiblhoblrd,iRd vv,idjqixegirqaxogibldq,ialbqi sictxbivqexn,
nhdjiliaqtdlhoi olrr tqg,igqstqaldhouij bxtx roqrr,ijhodqgidjldihc
AlsdlhoiLjlvinlriseqlrqgidxinleyidjqiseloyr,idjqo,ioxixoqiax egirlk
olk;iv didjqtqibhujdivqirxbqinlkixcib ccehouidjqioxhrq;ijhodhou
rxbqdjhouihoghrdhoadekilogijqrhdldhouekilvx diliuexvqixcidxn,ilogidjq
horqtdhxoihodxihd,ixcidjqih.xtkijqqemiLj!iRd vv,idjx ighgrdioxdiyoxn
Ljlvidjqom

“LbiHilialooxo-vlee,iRd vv,”irlhgiLjlv,i“djldidjx inx egrdinlgibqidjld
clrjhxo?iV diuxidjkinlkr;iHijlgicxtuxdmiVqexnidxidjkiohujdekiutl.q;
njqtqir ajilrikqireqqsivqdnqqoirjtx gr,idxi rqikqidxidjqicheehouixoqild
elrdm—Gxno,igxu,ilogiyqooqe!”

Rdltdhouildidjqi ocxtrqqoiaxoae ghouiqpaelbldhxoixcidjqirxir ggqoek
raxtoc eixegiblo,iRd vvinlrirsqqajeqrrilibxbqod;idjqoirlhgiqpahdqgek,
“Hilbioxdi rqgidxivqirsxyqoidxidjldinlk,irht;iHigxiv dieqrridjloijlec
ehyqihd,irhtm”

“L.lrd!iuthddqgiLjlvivqdnqqoijhrirqdidqqdj,ilogi.hxeqodekibx.houilnlk,
lrihcidxil.xhgirxbqislrrhxoldqidqbsdldhxom

“Ox,irht;ioxdikqd,”irlhgiRd vv,iqbvxegqoqg,i“Hinheeioxdidlbqekivq
aleeqgiligxu,irhtm”

“Djqoivqialeeqgidqoidhbqriligxoyqk,ilogilib eq,ilogiloilrr,ilogivquxoq,
xtiH’eeiaeqltidjqinxtegixcidjqq!”

Lrijqirlhgidjhr,iLjlvilg.loaqgi sxoijhbinhdjir ajix.qtvqlthouidqttxtr
hoijhrilrsqad,idjldiRd vviho.xe odlthekitqdtqldqgm

“Hinlrioq.qtirqt.qgirxivqcxtqinhdjx diuh.houilijltgivexnicxtihd,”
b ddqtqgiRd vv,ilrijqicx ogijhbrqecigqraqoghouidjqialvho-ra ddeqmi“Hd’r
.qtkiz qqtmiRdxs,iRd vv;irxbqjxn,ioxn,iHigxo’dinqeeiyoxninjqdjqtidxiux
vlayilogirdthyqijhb,ixt—njld’ridjld?—gxnoijqtqixoibkiyoqqrilogistlkicxt
jhb?iKqr,idjldinlridjqidjx ujdiaxbhoui sihoibq;iv dihdinx egivqidjq
chtrdidhbqiHiq.qti_ghg_istlkmiHd’riz qqt;i.qtkiz qqt;ilogijq’riz qqt
dxx;ilkq,idlyqijhbicxtqilogilcd,ijq’rilvx didjqiz qqtqrdixegibloiRd vv
q.qtirlheqginhdjmiJxnijqicelrjqgildibq!—jhriqkqriehyqisxngqt-slor!ihr
jqiblg?iLoknlkidjqtq’rirxbqdjhouixoijhribhog,ilrir tqilridjqtqib rdivq
rxbqdjhouixoiligqayinjqoihdiatlayrmiJqilhodihoijhrivqgioxn,iqhdjqt,
bxtqidjloidjtqqijx trix dixcidjqidnqodk-cx t;ilogijqigxo’direqqsidjqom
Ghgo’didjldiGx uj-Vxk,idjqirdqnltg,idqeeibqidjldixcilibxtohouijqilenlkr
chogridjqixegiblo’rijlbbxayiaexdjqrileeit bseqgilogid bveqg,ilogidjq
rjqqdrigxnoildidjqicxxd,ilogidjqiax.qtehgilebxrdidhqgihodxiyoxdr,ilog
djqisheexnilirxtdixcicthujdc eijxd,ilridjx ujilivlyqgivthayijlgivqqoixo
hd?iLijxdixegiblo!iHiu qrrijq’riuxdinjldirxbqicxeyrilrjxtqialeeil
axorahqoaq;ihd’riliyhogixciDha-Gxeek-txnidjqkirlk—nxtrqioxtil
dxxdjlajqmiNqee,inqee;iHigxo’diyoxninjldihdihr,iv didjqiExtgiyqqsibq
ctxbialdajhouihdmiJq’ric eeixcithggeqr;iHinxogqtinjldijqiuxqrihodxidjq
lcdqtijxegicxt,iq.qtkiohujd,ilriGx uj-Vxkidqeeribqijqir rsqadr;injld’r
djldicxt,iHirjx egiehyqidxiyoxn?iNjx’riblgqilssxhodbqodrinhdjijhbiho
djqijxeg?iLho’didjldiz qqt,ioxn?iV didjqtq’rioxidqeehou,ihd’ridjqixeg
ulbq—JqtqiuxqricxtiliroxxwqmiGlboibq,ihd’rinxtdjilicqeexn’rinjheqidxivq
vxtoihodxidjqinxteg,ihcixoekidxicleeithujdilreqqsmiLogioxnidjldiHidjhoy
xcihd,idjld’rilvx didjqichtrdidjhouivlvhqrigx,ilogidjld’rilirxtdixc
z qqt,idxxmiGlboibq,iv dileeidjhouriltqiz qqt,iaxbqidxidjhoyixci’qbm
V didjld’rilulhordibkisthoahseqrmiDjhoyioxd,ihribkiqeq.qodj
axbblogbqod;ilogireqqsinjqoikx ialo,ihribkidnqecdj—Rxijqtqiuxqrilulhom
V dijxn’ridjld?ighgo’dijqialeeibqiligxu?ivelwqr!ijqialeeqgibqidqoidhbqr
ligxoyqk,ilogisheqgiliexdixciflaylrrqrixoidxsixci_djld!_iJqibhujdilr
nqeeijl.qiyhayqgibq,ilogigxoqinhdjihdmiBlkvqijqi_ghg_iyhayibq,ilogiH
ghgo’dixvrqt.qihd,iHinlrirxidlyqoileeilvlayinhdjijhrivtxn,irxbqjxnmiHd
celrjqgiehyqiliveqlajqgivxoqmiNjldidjqigq.he’ridjqiblddqtinhdjibq?iH
gxo’dirdlogithujdixoibkiequrmiAxbhouilcx eixcidjldixegibloijlrilirxtd
xcid toqgibqintxouirhgqix dmiVkidjqiExtg,iHib rdijl.qivqqoigtqlbhou,
djx uj—Jxn?ijxn?ijxn?—v didjqixoekinlk’ridxirdlrjihd;irxijqtqiuxqridx
jlbbxayilulho;ilogihoidjqibxtohou,iH’eeirqqijxnidjhriselu qkif uuehou
djhoyrix.qtivkiglkehujdm”


AJLSDQTi30miDjqiShsqm

NjqoiRd vvijlgigqsltdqg,iLjlvirdxxgicxtilinjheqieqlohouix.qtidjq
v enltyr;ilogidjqo,ilrijlgivqqoi r leinhdjijhbixcieldq,ialeehouil
rlhextixcidjqinldaj,ijqirqodijhbivqexnicxtijhrih.xtkirdxxe,ilogilerx
jhrishsqmiEhujdhouidjqishsqildidjqivhoolaeqielbsilogiselodhouidjqirdxxe
xoidjqinqldjqtirhgqixcidjqigqay,ijqirldilogirbxyqgm

HoixegiOxtrqidhbqr,idjqidjtxoqrixcidjqirql-ex.houiGlohrjiyhourinqtq
clvthaldqg,irlhdjidtlghdhxo,ixcidjqid ryrixcidjqioltnjleqmiJxniax eg
xoqiexxyildiLjlvidjqo,irqldqgixoidjldidthsxgixcivxoqr,inhdjx d
vqdjhoyhouijhbixcidjqitxkledkihdirkbvxehwqg?iCxtiliYjloixcidjqiseloy,
logiliyhouixcidjqirql,ilogiliutqldiextgixciEq.hldjlorinlriLjlvm

Rxbqibxbqodrislrrqg,ig thouinjhajidjqidjhayi.lsxtialbqictxbijhribx dj
hoiz hayilogiaxordlodis ccr,injhajiveqnivlayilulhoihodxijhriclaqmi“Jxn
oxn,”ijqirxehexz hwqgildielrd,inhdjgtlnhouidjqid vq,i“djhrirbxyhouiox
exouqtirxxdjqrmiXj,ibkishsq!ijltgib rdihdiuxinhdjibqihcidjkiajltbivq
uxoq!iJqtqijl.qiHivqqoi oaxorahx rekidxhehou,ioxdiseqlr thou—lkq,ilog
huoxtlodekirbxyhouidxinhognltgileeidjqinjheq;idxinhognltg,iloginhdj
r ajioqt.x rinjhccr,ilrihc,iehyqidjqigkhouinjleq,ibkicholeifqdrinqtq
djqirdtxouqrdilogic eeqrdixcidtx veqmiNjldiv rhoqrrijl.qiHinhdjidjhr
shsq?iDjhridjhouidjldihribqlodicxtirqtqoqoqrr,idxirqogi sibheginjhdq
.lsxtrilbxouibheginjhdqijlhtr,ioxdilbxouidxtoihtxo-utqkiexayriehyq
bhoqmiH’eeirbxyqioxibxtq—”

JqidxrrqgidjqirdheeiehujdqgishsqihodxidjqirqlmiDjqichtqijhrrqgihoidjq
nl.qr;idjqirlbqihordlodidjqirjhsirjxdivkidjqiv vveqidjqirhoyhouishsq
blgqmiNhdjirex ajqgijld,iLjlvie tajhouekislaqgidjqiseloyrm


AJLSDQTi31miZ qqoiBlvm

OqpdibxtohouiRd vvilaaxrdqgiCelrym

“R ajiliz qqtigtqlb,iYhou-Sxrd,iHioq.qtijlgmiKx iyoxnidjqixegiblo’r
h.xtkiequ,inqeeiHigtqlbqgijqiyhayqgibqinhdjihd;iloginjqoiHidthqgidx
yhayivlay,i sxoibkirx e,ibkiehddeqiblo,iHiyhayqgibkiequithujdixcc!iLog
djqo,istqrdx!iLjlvirqqbqgilisktlbhg,ilogiH,iehyqilivelwhouicxxe,iyqsd
yhayhouildihdmiV dinjldinlrirdheeibxtqia thx r,iCelry—kx iyoxnijxn
a thx rileeigtqlbriltq—djtx ujileeidjhritluqidjldiHinlriho,iHirxbqjxn
rqqbqgidxivqidjhoyhouidxibkrqec,idjldilcdqtilee,ihdinlrioxdib ajixcilo
hor ed,idjldiyhayictxbiLjlvmi‘Njk,’idjhoyriH,i‘njld’ridjqitxn?iHd’rioxd
litqleiequ,ixoekiliclerqiequm’iLogidjqtq’rilibhujdkighccqtqoaqivqdnqqo
lieh.houidj bsilogiligqlgidj bsmiDjld’rinjldiblyqrilivexnictxbidjq
jlog,iCelry,ichcdkidhbqribxtqirl.luqidxivqltidjloilivexnictxbilialoqm
Djqieh.houibqbvqt—djldiblyqridjqieh.houihor ed,ibkiehddeqiblomiLog
djhoyriHidxibkrqecileeidjqinjheq,ibhog,injheqiHinlrird vvhouibkirheek
dxqrilulhordidjldia trqgisktlbhg—rxiaxocx ogqgekiaxodtlghadxtkinlrihd
lee,ileeidjqinjheq,iHirlk,iHinlridjhoyhouidxibkrqec,i‘njld’rijhriequ
oxn,iv dilialoq—linjleqvxoqialoqmiKqr,’idjhoyriH,i‘hdinlrixoekil
selkc eia guqeehou—hoiclad,ixoekilinjleqvxohouidjldijqiul.qibq—oxdil
vlrqiyhaymiVqrhgqr,’idjhoyriH,i‘exxyildihdixoaq;injk,idjqiqogixcihd—djq
cxxdisltd—njldilirbleeirxtdixciqogihdihr;injqtqlr,ihcilivtxlgicxxdqg
cltbqtiyhayqgibq,i_djqtq’r_iligq.hehrjivtxlgihor edmiV didjhrihor edihr
njhddeqgigxnoidxilisxhodixoekm’iV dioxniaxbqridjqiutqldqrdifxyqixcidjq
gtqlb,iCelrymiNjheqiHinlrivlddqthouilnlkildidjqisktlbhg,ilirxtdixc
vlguqt-jlhtqgixegibqtblo,inhdjilij bsixoijhrivlay,idlyqribqivkidjq
rjx egqtr,ilogireqnribqitx ogmi‘Njldiltqikx i’vx d?’irlkrijqmiRehg!
blo,iv diHinlricthujdqoqgmiR ajilisjhw!iV d,irxbqjxn,ioqpdibxbqodiHinlr
x.qtidjqicthujdmi‘NjldilbiHilvx d?’irlkriHildielrdmi‘Loginjldiv rhoqrr
hridjldixcikx tr,iHirjx egiehyqidxiyoxn,iBtmiJ bsvlay?iGxi_kx _inlodil
yhay?’iVkidjqiextg,iCelry,iHijlgioxirxxoqtirlhgidjld,idjloijqid toqg
tx ogijhrirdqtoidxibq,ivqodix.qt,ilogigtluuhoui siliexdixcirqlnqqgijq
jlgicxtiliaex d—njldigxikx idjhoy,iHirln?—njkidj ogqtileh.q,iblo,ijhr
rdqtoinlrird ayic eeixcibltehorshyqr,inhdjidjqisxhodrix dmiRlkriH,ixo
rqaxogidjx ujdr,i‘Hiu qrriHinxo’diyhayikx ,ixegicqeexnm’i‘NhrqiRd vv,’
rlhgijq,i‘nhrqiRd vv;’ilogiyqsdib ddqthouihdileeidjqidhbq,ilirxtdixc
qldhouixcijhrixnoiu briehyqiliajhboqkijlumiRqqhouijqinlro’diuxhouidx
rdxsirlkhouix.qtijhri‘nhrqiRd vv,inhrqiRd vv,’iHidjx ujdiHibhujdilr
nqeeicleeidxiyhayhouidjqisktlbhgilulhomiV diHijlgixoekif rdiehcdqgibk
cxxdicxtihd,injqoijqitxltqgix d,i‘Rdxsidjldiyhayhou!’i‘Jleexl,’irlkriH,
‘njld’ridjqiblddqtioxn,ixegicqeexn?’i‘Exxyikqijqtq,’irlkrijq;i‘eqd’r
ltu qidjqihor edmiAlsdlhoiLjlviyhayqgikq,ighgo’dijq?’i‘Kqr,ijqighg,’
rlkriH—‘thujdi_jqtq_ihdinlrm’i‘.qtkiuxxg,’irlkrijq—‘jqi rqgijhrih.xtk
equ,ighgo’dijq?’i‘Kqr,ijqighg,’irlkriHmi‘Nqeeidjqo,’irlkrijq,i‘nhrq
Rd vv,injldijl.qikx idxiaxbselhoixc?iGhgo’dijqiyhayinhdjithujdiuxxg
nhee?ihdinlro’diliaxbbxoishdajishoqiequijqiyhayqginhdj,inlrihd?iOx,ikx 
nqtqiyhayqgivkiliutqldiblo,iloginhdjilivql dhc eih.xtkiequ,iRd vvmiHd’r
loijxoxt;iHiaxorhgqtihdiloijxoxtmiEhrdqo,inhrqiRd vvmiHoixegiQouelog
djqiutqldqrdiextgridjhoyihdiutqldiuextkidxivqirelssqgivkiliz qqo,ilog
blgqiultdqt-yohujdrixc;iv d,ivqi_kx t_ivxlrd,iRd vv,idjldikqinqtq
yhayqgivkixegiLjlv,ilogiblgqilinhrqibloixcmiTqbqbvqtinjldiHirlk;i_vq_
yhayqgivkijhb;ilaax odijhriyhayrijxoxtr;ilogixoioxilaax odiyhayivlay;
cxtikx ialo’dijqesikx trqec,inhrqiRd vvmiGxo’dikx irqqidjldisktlbhg?’
Nhdjidjld,ijqileeixcilir ggqoirqqbqgirxbqjxn,ihoirxbqiz qqticlrjhxo,idx
rnhbixccihodxidjqilhtmiHiroxtqg;itxeeqgix.qt;ilogidjqtqiHinlrihoibk
jlbbxay!iOxn,injldigxikx idjhoyixcidjldigtqlb,iCelry?”

“Higxo’diyoxn;ihdirqqbrilirxtdixcicxxehrjidxibq,idjxm’”

“Blkivq;iblkivqmiV dihd’riblgqilinhrqibloixcibq,iCelrymiG’kqirqqiLjlv
rdloghouidjqtq,irhgqnlkriexxyhouix.qtidjqirdqto?iNqee,idjqivqrdidjhou
kx ialoigx,iCelry,ihridxieqdidjqixegibloilexoq;ioq.qtirsqlyidxijhb,
njldq.qtijqirlkrmiJleexl!iNjld’ridjldijqirjx dr?iJlty!”

“Blrd-jqlg,idjqtq!iExxyirjlts,ileeixcikq!iDjqtqiltqinjleqrijqtqlvx dr!

“Hcikqirqqilinjhdqixoq,irsehdikx tie ouricxtijhb!

“Njldigxikx idjhoyixcidjldioxn,iCelry?ilho’didjqtqilirbleeigtxsixc
rxbqdjhouiz qqtilvx didjld,iqj?iLinjhdqinjleq—ghgikqibltyidjld,iblo?
Exxyikq—djqtq’rirxbqdjhouirsqahleihoidjqinhogmiRdlogivkicxtihd,iCelrym
Ljlvijlridjldidjld’rivexxgkixoijhribhogmiV d,ib b;ijqiaxbqridjhrinlkm”


AJLSDQTi32miAqdxexukm

Letqlgkinqiltqivxegekiel oajqgi sxoidjqigqqs;iv dirxxoinqirjleeivqiexrd
hoihdri orjxtqg,ijltvx teqrrihbbqorhdhqrmiQtqidjldiaxbqidxislrr;iqtq
djqiSqz xg’rinqqgkij eeitxeerirhgqivkirhgqinhdjidjqivltolaeqgij eerixc
djqieq.hldjlo;ildidjqix drqdihdihriv dinqeeidxilddqogidxiliblddqt
lebxrdihoghrsqorlveqidxilidjxtx ujilsstqahldh.qi ogqtrdloghouixcidjq
bxtqirsqahleieq.hldjlohaitq.qeldhxorilogilee rhxorixcileeirxtdrinjhaj
ltqidxicxeexnm

Hdihrirxbqirkrdqbldhwqgiqpjhvhdhxoixcidjqinjleqihoijhrivtxlgiuqoqtl,
djldiHinx egioxniclhois divqcxtqikx miKqdihrihdioxiqlrkidlrymiDjq
aelrrhchaldhxoixcidjqiaxordhd qodrixciliajlxr,ioxdjhouieqrrihrijqtq
qrrlkqgmiEhrdqoidxinjldidjqivqrdilogieldqrdil djxthdhqrijl.qielhgigxnom

“OxivtloajixciWxxexukihrirxib ajiho.xe.qgilridjldinjhajihriqodhdeqg
Aqdxexuk,”irlkriAlsdlhoiRaxtqrvk,iLmGmi1820m

“Hdihrioxdibkihodqodhxo,inqtqihdihoibkisxnqt,idxiqodqtihodxidjqihoz htk
lridxidjqidt qibqdjxgixcigh.hghouidjqiaqdlaqlihodxiutx srilogiclbhehqrm
*i*i*i ddqtiaxoc rhxoiqphrdrilbxouidjqijhrdxthlorixcidjhrilohble”
(rsqtbinjleq),irlkriR tuqxoiVqleq,iLmGmi1839m

“ ochdoqrridxis tr qix titqrqltajihoidjqi ocldjxblveqinldqtrm”
“Hbsqoqdtlveqi.qheiax.qthouix tiyoxneqguqixcidjqiaqdlaqlm”i“Lichqeg
rdtqnoinhdjidjxtorm”i“Leeidjqrqihoaxbseqdqihoghaldhxoriv dirqt.qidx
dxtd tqi riold tlehrdrm”

Dj rirsqlyixcidjqinjleq,idjqiutqldiA .hqt,ilogiFxjoiJ odqt,ilogiEqrrxo,
djxrqiehujdrixciwxxexukilogiloldxbkmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,idjx ujixcitqle
yoxneqguqidjqtqivqiehddeq,ikqdixcivxxyridjqtqiltqiliseqodk;ilogirxiho
rxbqirbleeigqutqq,inhdjiaqdxexuk,ixtidjqirahqoaqixcinjleqrmiBlokiltq
djqibqo,irbleeilogiutqld,ixegilogioqn,ielogrbqoilogirqlbqo,injxijl.qild
eltuqixtihoiehddeq,inthddqoixcidjqinjleqmiT oix.qtilicqn:—DjqiL djxtr
xcidjqiVhveq;iLthrdxdeq;iSehok;iLegtx.logh;iRhtiDjxblriVtxnoq;iUqroqt;
Tlk;iEhooæ r;iTxogqeqdh r;iNheex ujvk;iUtqqo;iLtdqgh;iRhvvleg;iVthrrxo;
Bltdqo;iElaésègq;iVxooqdqttq;iGqrbltqrd;iVltxoiA .hqt;iCtqgqthay
A .hqt;iFxjoiJ odqt;iXnqo;iRaxtqrvk;iVqleq;iVqooqdd;iFmiTxrriVtxnoq;
djqiL djxtixciBhthlbiAxccho;iXebrdqlg;ilogidjqiTq.miDmiAjqq.qtmiV didx
njldi edhbldqiuqoqtlehwhouis tsxrqileeidjqrqijl.qinthddqo,idjqilvx.q
ahdqgiqpdtladrinheeirjxnm

Xcidjqiolbqrihoidjhriehrdixcinjleqil djxtr,ixoekidjxrqicxeexnhouiXnqo
q.qtirlnieh.houinjleqr;ilogiv dixoqixcidjqbinlrilitqleistxcqrrhxole
jltsxxoqqtiloginjleqblomiHibqloiAlsdlhoiRaxtqrvkmiXoidjqirqsltldq
r vfqadixcidjqiUtqqoelogixtithujd-njleq,ijqihridjqivqrdiqphrdhou
l djxthdkmiV diRaxtqrvkiyoqnioxdjhouilogirlkrioxdjhouixcidjqiutqld
rsqtbinjleq,iaxbsltqginhdjinjhajidjqiUtqqoeloginjleqihrilebxrdi onxtdjk
bqodhxohoumiLogijqtqivqihdirlhg,idjldidjqiUtqqoeloginjleqihriloi r tsqt
 sxoidjqidjtxoqixcidjqirqlrmiJqihrioxdiq.qoivkilokibqloridjqieltuqrdixc
djqinjleqrmiKqd,ixnhouidxidjqiexouisthxthdkixcijhriaelhbr,ilogidjq
stxcx ogihuoxtloaqinjhaj,idheeirxbqirq.qodkikqltrivlay,iho.qrdqgidjq
djqoiclv ex rixti ddqteki oyoxnoirsqtb-njleq,iloginjhajihuoxtloaqidx
djhristqrqodiglkirdheeitqhuorihoileeiv dirxbqicqnirahqodhchaitqdtqldr
loginjleq-sxtdr;idjhri r tsldhxoijlrivqqoiq.qtkinlkiaxbseqdqmiTqcqtqoaq
dxioqltekileeidjqieq.hldjlohailee rhxorihoidjqiutqldisxqdrixcislrd
glkr,inheeirldhrckikx idjldidjqiUtqqoeloginjleq,inhdjx dixoqith.le,inlr
dxidjqbidjqibxoltajixcidjqirqlrmiV didjqidhbqijlrildielrdiaxbqicxtil
oqnistxaelbldhxomiDjhrihriAjlthouiAtxrr;ijqltikq!iuxxgisqxseqilee,—djq
Utqqoeloginjleqihrigqsxrqg,—djqiutqldirsqtbinjleqioxnitqhuoqdj!

Djqtqiltqixoekidnxivxxyrihoivqhouinjhajildileeistqdqogidxis didjq
eh.houirsqtbinjleqivqcxtqikx ,ilogildidjqirlbqidhbq,ihoidjqitqbxdqrd
gqutqqir aaqqgihoidjqilddqbsdmiDjxrqivxxyriltqiVqleq’rilogiVqooqdd’r;
vxdjihoidjqhtidhbqir tuqxoridxiQouehrjiRx dj-Rqlinjleq-rjhsr,ilogivxdj
qpladilogitqehlveqibqomiDjqixthuholeiblddqtidx ajhouidjqirsqtbinjleqidx
vqicx ogihoidjqhti.xe bqrihrioqaqrrlthekirblee;iv dirxicltilrihdiuxqr,
hdihrixciqpaqeeqodiz lehdk,idjx ujibxrdekiaxochoqgidxirahqodhcha
gqrathsdhxomiLrikqd,ijxnq.qt,idjqirsqtbinjleq,irahqodhchaixtisxqdha,
eh.qrioxdiaxbseqdqihoilokiehdqtld tqmiCltilvx.qileeixdjqtij odqg
njleqr,ijhrihriloi onthddqoiehcqm

Oxnidjqi.lthx rirsqahqrixcinjleqrioqqgirxbqirxtdixcisxs elt
axbstqjqorh.qiaelrrhchaldhxo,ihcixoekiloiqlrkix dehoqixoqicxtidjq
stqrqod,ijqtqlcdqtidxivqicheeqgihoileeihdrigqsltdbqodrivkir vrqz qod
elvxtqtrmiLrioxivqddqtibloilg.loaqridxidlyqidjhriblddqtihoijlog,iH
jqtq sxoixccqtibkixnoisxxtiqogql.xtrmiHistxbhrqioxdjhouiaxbseqdq;
vqal rqilokij bloidjhouir ssxrqgidxivqiaxbseqdq,ib rdicxtidjldi.qtk
tqlrxoihocleehvekivqicl edkmiHirjleeioxdistqdqogidxilibho dqiloldxbhale
gqrathsdhxoixcidjqi.lthx rirsqahqr,ixt—hoidjhriselaqildieqlrd—dxib aj
xcilokigqrathsdhxomiBkixvfqadijqtqihrirhbsekidxistxfqadidjqigtl ujdixc
lirkrdqbldhwldhxoixciaqdxexukmiHilbidjqiltajhdqad,ioxdidjqiv hegqtm

V dihdihrilisxogqtx ridlry;ioxixtgholtkieqddqt-rxtdqtihoidjq
Sxrd-Xcchaqihriqz leidxihdmiDxiutxsqigxnoihodxidjqivxddxbixcidjqirql
lcdqtidjqb;idxijl.qixoq’rijlogrilbxouidjqi orsqlylveqicx ogldhxor,
thvr,ilogi.qtkisqe.hrixcidjqinxteg;idjhrihrilicqltc eidjhoumiNjldilbiH
djldiHirjx egiqrrlkidxijxxyidjqioxrqixcidjhrieq.hldjlo!iDjqilnc e
dl odhourihoiFxvibhujdinqeeilssleibqmiNheeijqi(djqieq.hldjlo)iblyqil
ax.qolodinhdjidjqq?iVqjxegidjqijxsqixcijhbihri.lho!iV diHijl.qirnlb
djtx ujiehvtlthqrilogirlheqgidjtx ujixaqlor;iHijl.qijlgidxigxinhdj
njleqrinhdjidjqrqi.hrhveqijlogr;iHilbihoiqltoqrd;ilogiHinheeidtkmiDjqtq
ltqirxbqistqehbholthqridxirqddeqm

Chtrd:iDjqi oaqtdlho,i orqddeqgiaxoghdhxoixcidjhrirahqoaqixciAqdxexuk
hrihoidjqi.qtki.qrdhv eqilddqrdqgivkidjqiclad,idjldihoirxbqiz ltdqtrihd
rdheeitqblhorilibxxdisxhodinjqdjqtilinjleqivqilichrjmiHoijhriRkrdqbixc
Old tq,iLmGmi1776,iEhooæ rigqaeltqr,i“Hijqtqvkirqsltldqidjqinjleqrictxb
djqichrjm”iV dixcibkixnoiyoxneqguq,iHiyoxnidjldigxnoidxidjqikqlti1850,
rjltyrilogirjlg,ileqnh.qrilogijqtthou,ilulhordiEhooæ r’riqpstqrriqghad,
nqtqirdheeicx ogigh.hghouidjqisxrrqrrhxoixcidjqirlbqirqlrinhdjidjq
Eq.hldjlom

Djqiutx ogri sxoinjhajiEhooæ rinx egiclhoijl.qivlohrjqgidjqinjleqrictxb
djqinldqtr,ijqirdldqrilricxeexnr:i“Xoilaax odixcidjqhtinltbivhexa elt
jqltd,idjqhtie our,idjqhtibx.lveqiqkqehgr,idjqhtijxeexniqltr,isqoqb
hodtlodqbicqbholbiblbbhrieladlodqb,”ilogicholeek,i“qpiequqiold tæif tq
bqthdxz qm”iHir vbhddqgileeidjhridxibkicthqogriRhbqxoiBlaqkilogiAjlteqk
Axccho,ixciOlod ayqd,ivxdjibqrrbldqrixcibhoqihoiliaqtdlhoi.xkluq,ilog
djqki ohdqgihoidjqixshohxoidjldidjqitqlrxorirqdicxtdjinqtqiledxuqdjqt
hor cchahqodmiAjlteqkistxcloqekijhodqgidjqkinqtqij bv um

Vqihdiyoxnoidjld,inlh.houileeiltu bqod,iHidlyqidjqiuxxgixegiclrjhxoqg
utx ogidjldidjqinjleqihrilichrj,ilogialeei sxoijxekiFxoljidxivlayibqm
Djhric oglbqodleidjhouirqddeqg,idjqioqpdisxhodihr,ihoinjldihodqtole
tqrsqadigxqridjqinjleqighccqtictxbixdjqtichrjmiLvx.q,iEhooæ rijlriuh.qo
kx idjxrqihdqbrmiV dihoivthqc,idjqkiltqidjqrq:ie ouriloginltbivexxg;
njqtqlr,ileeixdjqtichrjiltqie oueqrrilogiaxegivexxgqgm

Oqpd:ijxnirjleeinqigqchoqidjqinjleq,ivkijhrixv.hx riqpdqtoler,irxilr
axorsha x rekidxielvqeijhbicxtileeidhbqidxiaxbq?iDxivqirjxtd,idjqo,il
njleqihri_lirsx dhouichrjinhdjilijxthwxodleidlhe_miDjqtqikx ijl.qijhbm
Jxnq.qtiaxodtladqg,idjldigqchohdhxoihridjqitqr edixciqpslogqg
bqghdldhxomiLinlet rirsx drib ajiehyqilinjleq,iv didjqinlet rihrioxdil
chrj,ivqal rqijqihrilbsjhvhx rmiV didjqielrdidqtbixcidjqigqchohdhxoihr
rdheeibxtqiaxuqod,ilriax seqginhdjidjqichtrdmiLebxrdilokixoqib rdijl.q
oxdhaqgidjldileeidjqichrjiclbhehltidxielogrbqoijl.qioxdiliceld,iv dil
.qtdhale,ixti s-log-gxnoidlhemiNjqtqlr,ilbxouirsx dhouichrjidjqidlhe,
djx ujihdiblkivqirhbheltekirjlsqg,iho.lthlvekilrr bqrilijxthwxodle
sxrhdhxom

Vkidjqilvx.qigqchohdhxoixcinjldilinjleqihr,iHigxivkioxibqloriqpae gq
ctxbidjqieq.hldjlohaivtxdjqtjxxgilokirqliatqld tqijhdjqtdxihgqodhchqg
nhdjidjqinjleqivkidjqivqrdihocxtbqgiOlod ayqdqtr;ioxt,ixoidjqixdjqt
jlog,iehoyinhdjihdilokichrjijhdjqtdxil djxthdldh.qekitqultgqgilr
lehqom*iJqoaq,ileeidjqirbleeqt,irsx dhou,ilogijxthwxodleidlheqgichrj
b rdivqihoae gqgihoidjhriutx og-seloixciAqdxexukmiOxn,idjqo,iaxbqidjq
utlogigh.hrhxorixcidjqiqodhtqinjleqijxrdm

*Hilbilnltqidjldigxnoidxidjqistqrqodidhbq,idjqichrjirdkeqgiElbldhorilog
G uxouri(Shu-chrjilogiRxn-chrjixcidjqiAxcchorixciOlod ayqd)iltq
hoae gqgivkiblokiold tlehrdrilbxouidjqinjleqrmiV dilridjqrqishu-chrj
ltqilioxhrk,iaxodqbsdhveqirqd,ibxrdekie tyhouihoidjqibx djrixcith.qtr,
logicqqghouixoinqdijlk,ilogiqrsqahleekilridjqkigxioxdirsx d,iHigqok
djqhtiatqgqodhlerilrinjleqr;ilogijl.qistqrqodqgidjqbinhdjidjqht
slrrsxtdridxiz hdidjqiYhougxbixciAqdxexukm

Chtrd:iLaaxtghouidxibluohd gqiHigh.hgqidjqinjleqrihodxidjtqqisthbltk
VXXYRi(r vgh.hrhveqihodxiAJLSDQTR),ilogidjqrqirjleeiaxbstqjqogidjqb
lee,ivxdjirbleeilogieltuqm

HmiDJQiCXEHXiNJLEQ;iHHmidjqiXADL.XiNJLEQ;iHHHmidjqiG XGQAHBXiNJLEQm

LridjqidksqixcidjqiCXEHXiHistqrqodidjqi_RsqtbiNjleq_;ixcidjqiXADL.X,
djqi_Utlbs r_;ixcidjqiG XGQAHBX,idjqi_Sxtsxhrq_m

CXEHXRmiLbxouidjqrqiHijqtqihoae gqidjqicxeexnhouiajlsdqtr:—HmiDjq
_RsqtbiNjleq_;iHHmidjqi_ThujdiNjleq_;iHHHmidjqi_Cho-VlayiNjleq_;iH.m
djqi_J bs-vlayqgiNjleq_;i.midjqi_TlwxtiVlayiNjleq_;i.Hmidjqi_R esj t
VxddxbiNjleq_m

VXXYiHmi(_Cxehx_),iAJLSDQTiHmi(_RsqtbiNjleq_)m—Djhrinjleq,ilbxouidjq
Qouehrjixcixegi.lu qekiyoxnoilridjqiDt bslinjleq,ilogidjqiSjkrqdqt
njleq,ilogidjqiLo.heiJqlgqginjleq,ihridjqistqrqodiAlajlexdixcidjq
Ctqoaj,ilogidjqiSxddrchajixcidjqiUqtblor,ilogidjqiBlatxaqsjle rixcidjq
ExouiNxtgrmiJqihr,inhdjx digx vd,idjqieltuqrdihojlvhdlodixcidjqiuexvq;
djqibxrdicxtbhglveqixcileeinjleqridxiqoax odqt;idjqibxrdiblfqrdhaiho
lrsqad;ilogielrdek,ivkicltidjqibxrdi.le lveqihoiaxbbqtaq;ijqivqhouidjq
xoekiatqld tqictxbinjhajidjldi.le lveqir vrdloaq,irsqtblaqdh,ihr
xvdlhoqgmiLeeijhrisqa ehlthdhqrinhee,ihoiblokixdjqtiselaqr,ivqiqoeltuqg
 sxomiHdihriajhqcekinhdjijhriolbqidjldiHioxnijl.qidxigxmiSjhexexuhaleek
axorhgqtqg,ihdihrilvr tgmiRxbqiaqod thqrilux,injqoidjqiRsqtbinjleqinlr
lebxrdinjxeeki oyoxnoihoijhrixnoistxsqtihogh.hg lehdk,iloginjqoijhrixhe
nlrixoekilaahgqodleekixvdlhoqgictxbidjqirdtlogqgichrj;ihoidjxrqiglkr
rsqtblaqdh,ihdinx egirqqb,inlrisxs eltekir ssxrqgidxivqigqth.qgictxbil
atqld tqihgqodhaleinhdjidjqixoqidjqoiyoxnoihoiQouelogilridjqiUtqqoelog
xtiThujdiNjleqmiHdinlridjqihgqlilerx,idjldidjhrirlbqirsqtblaqdhinlr
djldiz hayqohouij bxtixcidjqiUtqqoelogiNjleqinjhajidjqichtrdirkeelveq
xcidjqinxtgiehdqtleekiqpstqrrqrmiHoidjxrqidhbqr,ilerx,irsqtblaqdhinlr
qpaqqghouekiraltaq,ioxdivqhoui rqgicxtiehujd,iv dixoekilriloixhodbqod
logibqghalbqodmiHdinlrixoekidxivqijlgictxbidjqigt uuhrdrilrikx 
oxnlglkriv kiloix oaqixcitj vltvmiNjqo,ilriHixshoq,ihoidjqiax trqixc
dhbq,idjqidt qiold tqixcirsqtblaqdhivqalbqiyoxno,ihdrixthuholeiolbqinlr
rdheeitqdlhoqgivkidjqigqleqtr;ioxigx vdidxiqojloaqihdri.le qivkil
oxdhxoirxirdtlouqekirhuohchalodixcihdriraltahdkmiLogirxidjqilssqeeldhxo
b rdildielrdijl.qiaxbqidxivqivqrdxnqgi sxoidjqinjleqictxbinjhajidjhr
rsqtblaqdhinlritqleekigqth.qgm

VXXYiHmi(_Cxehx_),iAJLSDQTiHHmi(_ThujdiNjleq_)m—Hoixoqitqrsqadidjhrihr
djqibxrdi.qoqtlveqixcidjqieq.hldjlor,ivqhouidjqixoqichtrditqu eltek
j odqgivkiblomiHdikhqegridjqiltdhaeqiaxbbxoekiyoxnoilrinjleqvxoqixt
vleqqo;ilogidjqixheirsqahleekiyoxnoilri“njleqixhe,”iloihocqthxtiltdhaeq
hoiaxbbqtaqmiLbxouidjqichrjqtbqo,ijqihrihoghrathbholdqekigqrhuoldqgivk
leeidjqicxeexnhouidhdeqr:iDjqiNjleq;idjqiUtqqoelogiNjleq;idjqiVelay
Njleq;idjqiUtqldiNjleq;idjqiDt qiNjleq;idjqiThujdiNjleqmiDjqtqihril
gqleixcixvra thdkiaxoaqtohouidjqihgqodhdkixcidjqirsqahqridj r
b edhd ghox rekivlsdhrqgmiNjldidjqoihridjqinjleq,injhajiHihoae gqiho
djqirqaxogirsqahqrixcibkiCxehxr?iHdihridjqiUtqldiBkrdhaqd rixcidjq
Qouehrjiold tlehrdr;idjqiUtqqoelogiNjleqixcidjqiQouehrjinjleqbqo;idjq
VleqhoqiXtgholhtqixcidjqiCtqoajinjleqbqo;idjqiUtxnelogriNlechrjixcidjq
RnqgqrmiHdihridjqinjleqinjhajicxtibxtqidjloidnxiaqod thqrislrdijlrivqqo
j odqgivkidjqiG dajilogiQouehrjihoidjqiLtadhairqlr;ihdihridjqinjleq
njhajidjqiLbqthaloichrjqtbqoijl.qiexouis tr qgihoidjqiHoghloixaqlo,ixo
djqiVtlwheiVloyr,ixoidjqiOxt’iNqrdiAxlrd,ilogi.lthx rixdjqtisltdrixc
djqinxteg,igqrhuoldqgivkidjqbiThujdiNjleqiAt hrhouiUtx ogrm

RxbqistqdqogidxirqqilighccqtqoaqivqdnqqoidjqiUtqqoeloginjleqixcidjq
QouehrjilogidjqithujdinjleqixcidjqiLbqthalormiV didjqkistqahrqekilutqq
hoileeidjqhtiutlogicqld tqr;ioxtijlridjqtqikqdivqqoistqrqodqgilirhoueq
gqdqtbholdqicladi sxoinjhajidxiutx ogilitlghaleighrdhoadhxomiHdihrivk
qogeqrrir vgh.hrhxorivlrqgi sxoidjqibxrdihoaxoae rh.qighccqtqoaqr,idjld
rxbqigqsltdbqodrixciold tleijhrdxtkivqaxbqirxitqsqeehouekihodthaldqm
Djqithujdinjleqinheeivqiqerqnjqtqidtqldqgixcildirxbqieqoudj,inhdj
tqcqtqoaqidxiqe ahgldhouidjqirsqtbinjleqm

VXXYiHmi(_Cxehx_),iAJLSDQTiHHHmi(_Cho-Vlay_)m— ogqtidjhrijqlgiHitqayxo
libxordqtinjhaj,ivkidjqi.lthx riolbqrixciCho-Vlay,iDlee-Rsx d,ilog
Exou-Fxjo,ijlrivqqoirqqoilebxrdihoiq.qtkirqlilogihriaxbbxoekidjqinjleq
njxrqighrdlodifqdihrirxixcdqoigqrathqgivkislrrqouqtriatxrrhouidjq
Ldelodha,ihoidjqiOqniKxtyislayqd-dtlayrmiHoidjqieqoudjijqilddlhor,ilog
hoijhrivleqqo,idjqiCho-vlayitqrqbveqridjqithujdinjleq,iv dihrixcilieqrr
sxtdekiuhtdj,ilogiliehujdqtiaxex t,ilsstxlajhouidxixeh.qmiJhriutqld
ehsristqrqodilialveq-ehyqilrsqad,icxtbqgivkidjqihodqtdnhrdhou,irelodhou
cxegrixcieltuqinthoyeqrmiJhriutlogighrdhou hrjhouicqld tq,idjqicho,
ctxbinjhajijqigqth.qrijhriolbq,ihrixcdqoiliaxorsha x rixvfqadmiDjhricho
hrirxbqidjtqqixticx ticqqdiexou,iutxnhoui.qtdhaleekictxbidjqijhogqt
sltdixcidjqivlay,ixciloilou eltirjlsq,iloginhdjili.qtkirjltsisxhodqg
qogmiQ.qoihcioxdidjqirehujdqrdixdjqtisltdixcidjqiatqld tqivqi.hrhveq,
djhrihrxeldqgichoinhee,ildidhbqr,ivqirqqoiselhoekistxfqadhouictxbidjq
r tclaqmiNjqoidjqirqlihribxgqtldqekialeb,ilogirehujdekibltyqginhdj
rsjqthaleithsseqr,ilogidjhriuoxbxo-ehyqichoirdlogri silogialrdrirjlgxnr
 sxoidjqinthoyeqgir tclaq,ihdiblkinqeeivqir ssxrqgidjldidjqinldqtk
ahtaeqir ttx oghouihdirxbqnjlditqrqbveqrilighle,inhdjihdrirdkeqilog
nl.kijx t-ehoqriutl.qgixoihdmiXoidjldiLjlw-ghleidjqirjlgxnixcdqoiuxqr
vlaymiDjqiCho-Vlayihrioxdiutqulthx rmiJqirqqbrilinjleq-jldqt,ilrirxbq
bqoiltqiblo-jldqtrmi.qtkirjk;ilenlkriuxhouirxehdltk;i oqpsqadqgek
thrhouidxidjqir tclaqihoidjqitqbxdqrdilogibxrdir eeqoinldqtr;ijhr
rdtlhujdilogirhoueqiexcdkifqdithrhouiehyqilidleeibhrlodjtxshairsqlt
 sxoilivlttqoiselho;iuhcdqginhdjir ajinxogtx risxnqtilogi.qexahdkiho
rnhbbhou,ilridxigqckileeistqrqodis tr hdictxbiblo;idjhrieq.hldjloirqqbr
djqivlohrjqgilogi oaxoz qtlveqiAlhoixcijhritlaq,ivqlthouicxtijhriblty
djldirdkeqi sxoijhrivlaymiCtxbijl.houidjqivleqqoihoijhribx dj,idjq
Cho-Vlayihrirxbqdhbqrihoae gqginhdjidjqithujdinjleq,ilbxouilidjqxtqdha
rsqahqrigqoxbholdqgi_Njleqvxoqinjleqr_,idjldihr,injleqrinhdjivleqqomiXc
djqrqirxialeeqgiNjleqvxoqinjleqr,idjqtqinx egirqqbidxivqirq.qtle
.lthqdhqr,ibxrdixcinjhaj,ijxnq.qt,iltqiehddeqiyoxnomiVtxlg-oxrqginjleqr
logivqlyqginjleqr;ishyq-jqlgqginjleqr;iv oajqginjleqr;i ogqt-flnqg
njleqrilogitxrdtldqginjleqr,iltqidjqichrjqtbqo’riolbqricxtilicqnirxtdrm

Hoiaxooqadhxoinhdjidjhrilssqeeldh.qixci“Njleqvxoqinjleqr,”ihdihrixc
utqldihbsxtdloaqidxibqodhxo,idjldijxnq.qtir ajilioxbqoaeld tqiblkivq
axo.qohqodihoiclahehdldhouilee rhxoridxirxbqiyhogixcinjleqr,ikqdihdihr
hoi.lhoidxilddqbsdiliaeqltiaelrrhchaldhxoixcidjqiEq.hldjlo,icx ogqg
 sxoiqhdjqtijhrivleqqo,ixtij bs,ixticho,ixtidqqdj;ioxdnhdjrdloghouidjld
djxrqibltyqgisltdrixticqld tqri.qtkixv.hx rekirqqbivqddqtilglsdqgidx
lccxtgidjqivlrhricxtilitqu eltirkrdqbixciAqdxexukidjloilokixdjqt
gqdlajqgivxghekighrdhoadhxor,injhajidjqinjleq,ihoijhriyhogr,istqrqodrm
Jxnidjqo?iDjqivleqqo,ij bs,ivlay-cho,ilogidqqdj;idjqrqiltqidjhourinjxrq
sqa ehlthdhqriltqihoghrathbholdqekighrsqtrqgilbxouileeirxtdrixcinjleqr,
nhdjx dilokitqultgidxinjldiblkivqidjqiold tqixcidjqhtirdt ad tqiho
xdjqtilogibxtqiqrrqodhleisltdha eltrmiDj r,idjqirsqtbinjleqilogidjq
j bsvlayqginjleq,iqlajijlrilij bs;iv didjqtqidjqirhbhehd gqiaqlrqrm
Djqo,idjhrirlbqij bsvlayqginjleqilogidjqiUtqqoeloginjleq,iqlajixcidjqrq
jlrivleqqo;iv didjqtqilulhoidjqirhbhehd gqiaqlrqrmiLogihdihrif rdidjq
rlbqinhdjidjqixdjqtisltdrilvx.qibqodhxoqgmiHoi.lthx rirxtdrixcinjleqr,
djqkicxtbir ajihttqu eltiaxbvholdhxor;ixt,ihoidjqialrqixcilokixoqixc
djqbigqdlajqg,ir ajiloihttqu eltihrxeldhxo;ilri ddqtekidxigqckilee
uqoqtleibqdjxghwldhxoicxtbqgi sxoir ajilivlrhrmiXoidjhritxayiq.qtkixoq
xcidjqinjleq-old tlehrdrijlrirsehdm

V dihdiblkisxrrhvekivqiaxoaqh.qgidjld,ihoidjqihodqtoleisltdrixcidjq
njleq,ihoijhriloldxbk—djqtq,ildieqlrd,inqirjleeivqilveqidxijhdidjq
thujdiaelrrhchaldhxomiOlk;injldidjhou,icxtiqplbseq,ihridjqtqihoidjq
Utqqoeloginjleq’riloldxbkibxtqirdthyhouidjloijhrivleqqo?iKqdinqijl.q
rqqoidjldivkijhrivleqqoihdihrihbsxrrhveqiaxttqadekidxiaelrrhckidjq
UtqqoeloginjleqmiLogihcikx igqraqogihodxidjqivxnqerixcidjqi.lthx r
eq.hldjlor,injkidjqtqikx inheeioxdichogighrdhoadhxorilichcdhqdjisltdilr
l.lhelveqidxidjqirkrdqbldhwqtilridjxrqiqpdqtoleixoqriletqlgk
qo bqtldqgmiNjldidjqoitqblhor?ioxdjhouiv didxidlyqijxegixcidjqinjleqr
vxghek,ihoidjqhtiqodhtqiehvqtlei.xe bq,ilogivxegekirxtdidjqbidjldinlkm
LogidjhrihridjqiVhvehxutlsjhaleirkrdqbijqtqilgxsdqg;ilogihdihridjqixoek
xoqidjldialoisxrrhvekir aaqqg,icxtihdilexoqihristladhalveqmiDxistxaqqgm

VXXYiHmi(_Cxehx_)iAJLSDQTiH.mi(_J bsiVlay_)m—Djhrinjleqihrixcdqoirqqo
xoidjqioxtdjqtoiLbqthaloiaxlrdmiJqijlrivqqoictqz qodekialsd tqgidjqtq,
logidxnqgihodxijltvxtmiJqijlriliutqldislayixoijhbiehyqilisqggeqt;ixt
kx ibhujdialeeijhbidjqiQeqsjlodilogiAlrdeqinjleqmiLdilokitldq,idjq
sxs eltiolbqicxtijhbigxqrioxdir cchahqodekighrdhou hrjijhb,irhoaqidjq
rsqtbinjleqilerxijlrilij bsidjx ujilirbleeqtixoqmiJhrixheihrioxdi.qtk
.le lveqmiJqijlrivleqqomiJqihridjqibxrdiulbqrxbqilogiehujd-jqltdqgixc
leeidjqinjleqr,iblyhouibxtqiulkicxlbiloginjhdqinldqtiuqoqtleekidjloilok
xdjqtixcidjqbm

VXXYiHmi(_Cxehx_),iAJLSDQTi.mi(_TlwxtiVlay_)m—Xcidjhrinjleqiehddeqihr
yoxnoiv dijhriolbqmiHijl.qirqqoijhbildilighrdloaqixcciAlsqiJxtomiXcil
tqdhthouiold tq,ijqiqe gqrivxdjij odqtrilogisjhexrxsjqtrmiDjx ujiox
axnltg,ijqijlrioq.qtikqdirjxnoilokisltdixcijhbiv dijhrivlay,injhaj
thrqrihoiliexouirjltsithguqmiEqdijhbiuxmiHiyoxniehddeqibxtqixcijhb,ioxt
gxqrilokvxgkiqerqm

VXXYiHmi(_Cxehx_),iAJLSDQTi.Hmi(_R esj tiVxddxb_)m—Loxdjqtitqdhthou
uqodeqblo,inhdjilivthbrdxoqivqeek,igx vdeqrriuxdivkiratlshouilexouidjq
Dltdlthloidheqrihoirxbqixcijhristxcx ogqtigh.hourmiJqihrirqegxbirqqo;
ldieqlrdiHijl.qioq.qtirqqoijhbiqpaqsdihoidjqitqbxdqtirx djqtoirqlr,ilog
djqoilenlkrildidxxiutqldilighrdloaqidxird gkijhriax odqoloaqmiJqihr
oq.qtiajlrqg;ijqinx egit oilnlkinhdjitxsq-nleyrixciehoqmiStxghuhqriltq
dxegixcijhbmiLghq ,iR esj tiVxddxb!iHialoirlkioxdjhouibxtqidjldihridt q
xcikq,ioxtialoidjqixegqrdiOlod ayqdqtm

Dj riqogriVXXYiHmi(_Cxehx_),ilogioxnivquhoriVXXYiHHmi(_Xadl.x_)m

XADL.XQRm*—Djqrqiqbvtlaqidjqinjleqrixcibhggehouibluohd gq,ilbxouinjhaj
stqrqodiblkivqio bvqtqg:—Hm,idjqi_Utlbs r_;iHHm,idjqi_VelayiChrj_;
HHHm,idjqi_Oltnjleq_;iH.m,idjqi_Djtlrjqt_;i.m,idjqi_Yheeqt_m

*NjkidjhrivxxyixcinjleqrihrioxdigqoxbholdqgidjqiZ ltdxihri.qtkiselhom
Vqal rq,injheqidjqinjleqrixcidjhrixtgqt,idjx ujirbleeqtidjloidjxrqixc
djqicxtbqtixtgqt,ioq.qtdjqeqrritqdlhoilistxsxtdhxoldqiehyqoqrridxidjqb
hoichu tq,ikqdidjqivxxyvhogqt’riZ ltdxi.xe bqihoihdrighbqorhxoqgicxtb
gxqrioxdistqrqt.qidjqirjlsqixcidjqiCxehxi.xe bq,iv didjqiXadl.xi.xe bq
gxqrm

VXXYiHHmi(_Xadl.x_),iAJLSDQTiHmi(_Utlbs r_)m—Djx ujidjhrichrj,injxrq
ex girxoxtx rivtqldjhou,ixtitldjqtivexnhou,ijlric tohrjqgilistx.qtvidx
elogrbqo,ihrirxinqeeiyoxnoiligqohwqoixcidjqigqqs,ikqdihrijqioxd
sxs eltekiaelrrqgilbxouinjleqrmiV disxrrqrrhouileeidjqiutlog
ghrdhoadh.qicqld tqrixcidjqieq.hldjlo,ibxrdiold tlehrdrijl.qitqaxuohrqg
jhbicxtixoqmiJqihrixcibxgqtldqixadl.xirhwq,i.ltkhouictxbichcdqqoidx
dnqodk-ch.qicqqdihoieqoudj,ilogixciaxttqrsxoghouighbqorhxoritx ogidjq
nlhrdmiJqirnhbrihoijqtgr;ijqihrioq.qtitqu eltekij odqg,idjx ujijhrixhe
hriaxorhgqtlveqihoiz lodhdk,ilogistqddkiuxxgicxtiehujdmiVkirxbq
chrjqtbqoijhrilsstxlajihritqultgqgilristqbxohdxtkixcidjqilg.loaqixcidjq
utqldirsqtbinjleqm

VXXYiHHmi(_Xadl.x_),iAJLSDQTiHHmi(_VelayiChrj_)m—Hiuh.qidjqisxs elt
chrjqtbqo’riolbqricxtileeidjqrqichrj,icxtiuqoqtleekidjqkiltqidjqivqrdm
Njqtqilokiolbqijlssqoridxivqi.lu qixtihoqpstqrrh.q,iHirjleeirlkirx,ilog
r uuqrdiloxdjqtmiHigxirxioxn,idx ajhouidjqiVelayiChrj,irx-aleeqg,
vqal rqivelayoqrrihridjqit eqilbxouilebxrdileeinjleqrmiRx,ialeeijhbidjq
JkqoliNjleq,ihcikx iseqlrqmiJhri.xtlahdkihrinqeeiyoxno,ilogictxbidjq
ahta brdloaqidjldidjqihooqtiloueqrixcijhriehsriltqia t.qgi snltgr,ijq
altthqriloiq.qtelrdhouiBqsjhrdxsjqeqloiuthoixoijhriclaqmiDjhrinjleq
l.qtluqrirxbqirhpdqqoixtiqhujdqqoicqqdihoieqoudjmiJqihricx ogihoilebxrd
leeieldhd gqrmiJqijlrilisqa ehltinlkixcirjxnhouijhrigxtrleijxxyqgicho
hoirnhbbhou,injhajiexxyrirxbqdjhouiehyqiliTxbloioxrqmiNjqoioxdibxtq
stxchdlvekiqbsexkqg,idjqirsqtbinjleqij odqtrirxbqdhbqrialsd tqidjq
Jkqolinjleq,idxiyqqsi sidjqir ssekixciajqlsixheicxtigxbqrdha
qbsexkbqod—lrirxbqict uleijx rqyqqsqtr,ihoidjqilvrqoaqixciaxbslok,ilog
z hdqilexoqivkidjqbrqe.qr,iv toi orl.xtkidleexnihordqlgixcixgxtx rinlpm
Djx ujidjqhtive vvqtihri.qtkidjho,irxbqixcidjqrqinjleqrinheeikhqegikx 
 snltgrixcidjhtdkiuleexorixcixhem

VXXYiHHmi(_Xadl.x_),iAJLSDQTiHHHmi(_Oltnjleq_),idjldihr,i_Oxrdthe
njleq_m—Loxdjqtihordloaqixcilia thx rekiolbqginjleq,irxiolbqgiHir ssxrq
ctxbijhrisqa ehltijxtoivqhouixthuholeekibhrdlyqoicxtilisqlyqgioxrqmiDjq
atqld tqihrirxbqirhpdqqoicqqdihoieqoudj,injheqihdrijxtoil.qtluqrich.q
cqqd,idjx ujirxbqiqpaqqgidqo,ilogiq.qoilddlhoidxichcdqqoicqqdmiRdthadek
rsqlyhou,idjhrijxtoihriv dilieqoudjqoqgid ry,iutxnhouix dictxbidjqifln
hoiliehoqiliehddeqigqstqrrqgictxbidjqijxthwxodlemiV dihdihrixoekicx og
xoidjqirhohrdqtirhgq,injhajijlriloiheeiqccqad,iuh.houihdrixnoqt
rxbqdjhouilolexux ridxidjqilrsqadixciliae brkieqcd-jlogqgiblomiNjld
stqahrqis tsxrqidjhrih.xtkijxtoixtieloaqilornqtr,ihdinx egivqijltgidx
rlkmiHdigxqrioxdirqqbidxivqi rqgiehyqidjqivelgqixcidjqirnxtg-chrjilog
vhee-chrj;idjx ujirxbqirlhextridqeeibqidjldidjqiOltnjleqiqbsexkrihdicxt
litlyqihoid tohouix.qtidjqivxddxbixcidjqirqlicxticxxgmiAjlteqkiAxccho
rlhgihdinlri rqgicxtiloihaq-shqtaqt;icxtidjqiOltnjleq,ithrhouidxidjq
r tclaqixcidjqiSxeltiRql,ilogichoghouihdirjqqdqginhdjihaq,idjt rdrijhr
jxtoi s,ilogirxivtqlyridjtx ujmiV dikx ialooxdistx.qiqhdjqtixcidjqrq
r tbhrqridxivqiaxttqadmiBkixnoixshohxoihr,idjldijxnq.qtidjhrixoq-rhgqg
jxtoiblkitqleekivqi rqgivkidjqiOltnjleq—jxnq.qtidjldiblkivq—hdinx eg
aqtdlhoekivqi.qtkiaxo.qohqodidxijhbicxtilicxegqtihoitqlghouislbsjeqdrm
DjqiOltnjleqiHijl.qijqltgialeeqgidjqiD ryqginjleq,idjqiJxtoqginjleq,
logidjqi ohaxtoinjleqmiJqihriaqtdlhoekilia thx riqplbseqixcidjq
 ohaxtohrbidxivqicx ogihoilebxrdiq.qtkiyhougxbixcilohbldqgiold tqmiCtxb
aqtdlhoiaexhrdqtqgixegil djxtriHijl.qiuldjqtqgidjldidjhrirlbq
rql- ohaxto’rijxtoinlrihoiloahqodiglkritqultgqgilridjqiutqldilodhgxdq
lulhordisxhrxo,ilogilrir aj,istqsltldhxorixcihdivtx ujdihbbqorqisthaqrm
Hdinlrilerxighrdheeqgidxili.xeldheqirledricxticlhodhouielghqr,idjqirlbq
nlkidjldidjqijxtorixcidjqibleqigqqtiltqiblo clad tqgihodxijltdrjxtom
Xthuholeekihdinlrihoihdrqecilaax odqgiloixvfqadixciutqldia thxrhdkm
VelayiEqddqtidqeeribqidjldiRhtiBltdhoiCtxvhrjqtixoijhritqd toictxbidjld
.xkluq,injqoiZ qqoiVqrrighgiuleelodekinl.qijqtifqnqeeqgijlogidxijhb
ctxbilinhogxnixciUtqqonhajiSlelaq,ilrijhrivxegirjhsirlheqgigxnoidjq
Djlbqr;i“njqoiRhtiBltdhoitqd toqgictxbidjldi.xkluq,”irlhdjiVelay
Eqddqt,i“xoivqogqgiyoqqrijqistqrqodqgidxijqtijhujoqrrilistxghuhx riexou
jxtoixcidjqiOltnjleq,injhajicxtiliexouisqthxgilcdqtij ouihoidjqialrdeq
ldiNhogrxtm”iLoiHthrjil djxtil.qtridjldidjqiQlteixciEqhaqrdqt,ixo
vqogqgiyoqqr,ighgiehyqnhrqistqrqodidxijqtijhujoqrriloxdjqtijxto,
sqtdlhohouidxilielogivqlrdixcidjqi ohaxtoiold tqm

DjqiOltnjleqijlrili.qtkishad tqrz q,ieqxsltg-ehyqiexxy,ivqhouixcil
bhey-njhdqiutx ogiaxex t,igxddqginhdjitx ogilogixvexouirsxdrixcivelaym
Jhrixheihri.qtkir sqthxt,iaeqltilogichoq;iv didjqtqihriehddeqixcihd,
logijqihrirqegxbij odqgmiJqihribxrdekicx ogihoidjqiahta bsxeltirqlrm

VXXYiHHmi(_Xadl.x_),iAJLSDQTiH.mi(_Yheeqt_)m—Xcidjhrinjleqiehddeqihr
stqahrqekiyoxnoidxidjqiOlod ayqdqt,ilogioxdjhouildileeidxidjqistxcqrrqg
old tlehrdmiCtxbinjldiHijl.qirqqoixcijhbildilighrdloaq,iHirjx egirlk
djldijqinlrilvx didjqivhuoqrrixciliutlbs rmiJqihri.qtkirl.luq—lirxtdixc
CqquqqichrjmiJqirxbqdhbqridlyqridjqiutqldiCxehxinjleqrivkidjqiehs,ilog
jlouridjqtqiehyqilieqqaj,idheeidjqibhujdkivt dqihrinxtthqgidxigqldjm
DjqiYheeqtihrioq.qtij odqgmiHioq.qtijqltginjldirxtdixcixheijqijlrm
Qpaqsdhxoibhujdivqidlyqoidxidjqiolbqivqrdxnqgi sxoidjhrinjleq,ixoidjq
utx ogixcihdrihoghrdhoadoqrrmiCxtinqiltqileeiyheeqtr,ixoielogilogixo
rql;iVxolsltdqrilogiRjltyrihoae gqgm

VXXYiHHmi(_Xadl.x_),iAJLSDQTi.mi(_Djtlrjqt_)m—Djhriuqodeqbloihriclbx r
cxtijhridlhe,injhajijqi rqricxtilicqt eqihoidjtlrjhouijhricxqrmiJq
bx odridjqiCxehxinjleq’rivlay,ilogilrijqirnhbr,ijqinxtyrijhrislrrluqivk
cexuuhouijhb;ilrirxbqirajxxeblrdqtriuqdilexouihoidjqinxtegivkilirhbhelt
stxaqrrmiRdheeieqrrihriyoxnoixcidjqiDjtlrjqtidjloixcidjqiYheeqtmiVxdj
ltqix delnr,iq.qoihoidjqielneqrrirqlrm

iDj riqogriVXXYiHHmi(_Xadl.x_),ilogivquhoriVXXYiHHHmi(_G xgqahbx_)m

G XGQAHBXQRm—Djqrqihoae gqidjqirbleeqtinjleqrmiHmiDjqiJ wwliSxtsxhrqm
HHmiDjqiLeuqthoqiSxtsxhrqmiHHHmiDjqiBqlek-bx djqgiSxtsxhrqm

Dxidjxrqinjxijl.qioxdiajloaqgirsqahleekidxird gkidjqir vfqad,ihdiblk
sxrrhvekirqqbirdtlouq,idjldichrjqrioxdiaxbbxoekiqpaqqghouicx tixtich.q
cqqdirjx egivqibltrjleeqgilbxouiNJLEQR—linxtg,injhaj,ihoidjqisxs elt
rqorq,ilenlkriaxo.qkriloihgqlixcij uqoqrrmiV didjqiatqld tqrirqdigxno
lvx.qilriG xgqahbxqriltqihocleehvekinjleqr,ivkidjqidqtbrixcibk
gqchohdhxoixcinjldilinjleqihr—_hmqm_ilirsx dhouichrj,inhdjilijxthwxodle
dlhem

VXXYiHHHmi(_G xgqahbx_),iAJLSDQTi1mi(_J wwliSxtsxhrq_)m—Djhrihridjq
axbbxoisxtsxhrqicx ogilebxrdileeix.qtidjqiuexvqmiDjqiolbqihrixcibkixno
vqrdxnle;icxtidjqtqiltqibxtqidjloixoqirxtdixcisxtsxhrqr,ilogirxbqdjhou
b rdivqigxoqidxighrdhou hrjidjqbmiHialeeijhbidj r,ivqal rqijqilenlkr
rnhbrihoijhelthx rirjxler,injhaji sxoidjqivtxlgirqliyqqsidxrrhou
djqbrqe.qridxijql.qoiehyqialsrihoiliCx tdj-xc-F ekiatxngmiDjqht
lssqltloaqihriuqoqtleekijlheqginhdjigqehujdivkidjqiblthoqtmiC eeixc
choqirshthdr,idjqkiho.lthlvekiaxbqictxbidjqivtqqwkivheexnridxinhognltgm
Djqkiltqidjqielgridjldilenlkrieh.qivqcxtqidjqinhogmiDjqkiltqilaax odqg
lie aykixbqomiHcikx ikx trqecialoinhdjrdlogidjtqqiajqqtrildivqjxeghou
djqrqi.h.lahx richrj,idjqoijql.qoijqesikq;idjqirshthdixciuxgek
ulbqrxbqoqrrihrioxdihoikqmiLinqee-cqg,ise bsiJ wwliSxtsxhrqinheeikhqeg
kx ixoqiuxxgiuleexoixciuxxgixhemiV didjqichoqilogigqehaldqice hg
qpdtladqgictxbijhriflnrihriqpaqqghoueki.le lveqmiHdihrihoitqz qrdilbxou
fqnqeeqtriloginldajblyqtrmiRlhextris dihdixoidjqhtijxoqrmiSxtsxhrqibqld
hriuxxgiqldhou,ikx iyoxnmiHdiblkioq.qtijl.qixaa ttqgidxikx idjldil
sxtsxhrqirsx drmiHogqqg,ijhrirsx dihrirxirbleeidjldihdihrioxdi.qtk
tqlghekighraqtohveqmiV didjqioqpdidhbqikx ijl.qiliajloaq,inldajijhb;
logikx inheeidjqoirqqidjqiutqldiRsqtbinjleqijhbrqecihoibhohld tqm

VXXYiHHHmi(_G xgqahbx_),iAJLSDQTiHHmi(_LeuqthoqiSxtsxhrq_)m—Lishtldqm
.qtkirl.luqmiJqihrixoekicx og,iHidjhoy,ihoidjqiSlahchamiJqihrirxbqnjld
eltuqtidjloidjqiJ wwliSxtsxhrq,iv dib ajixcidjqirlbqiuqoqtleiblyqm
Stx.xyqijhb,ilogijqinheeiv ayeqidxilirjltymiHijl.qiexnqtqgicxtijhbiblok
dhbqr,iv dioq.qtikqdirlnijhbialsd tqgm

VXXYiHHHmi(_G xgqahbx_),iAJLSDQTiHHHmi(_Bqlek-bx djqgiSxtsxhrq_)m—Djq
eltuqrdiyhogixciSxtsxhrq;ilogixoekicx ogihoidjqiSlahcha,irxicltilrihd
hriyoxnomiDjqixoekiQouehrjiolbq,ivkinjhajijqijlrijhdjqtdxivqqo
gqrhuoldqg,ihridjldixcidjqichrjqtr—Thujd-NjleqiSxtsxhrq,ictxbidjq
ahta brdloaqidjldijqihriajhqcekicx ogihoidjqi.hahohdkixcidjldiCxehxmiHo
rjlsq,ijqighccqtrihoirxbqigqutqqictxbidjqiJ wwliSxtsxhrq,ivqhouixcil
eqrritxd ogilogifxeekiuhtdj;ihogqqg,ijqihrixciz hdqilioqldilog
uqodeqblo-ehyqichu tqmiJqijlrioxichorixoijhrivlayi(bxrdixdjqtisxtsxhrqr
jl.q),ijqijlriliex.qekidlhe,ilogirqodhbqodleiHoghloiqkqrixcilijlwqe
j qmiV dijhribqlek-bx djirsxherileemiDjx ujijhriqodhtqivlayigxnoidxijhr
rhgqichorihrixciligqqsirlveq,ikqdilivx ogltkiehoq,ighrdhoadilridjqiblty
hoilirjhs’rij ee,ialeeqgidjqi“vthujdinlhrd,”idjldiehoqirdtqlyrijhbictxb
rdqbidxirdqto,inhdjidnxirqsltldqiaxex tr,ivelayilvx.qiloginjhdqivqexnm
Djqinjhdqiaxbsthrqrisltdixcijhrijqlg,ilogidjqinjxeqixcijhribx dj,injhaj
blyqrijhbiexxyilrihcijqijlgif rdiqralsqgictxbilicqexohx ri.hrhdidxil
bqle-vlumiLibxrdibqloilogibqlekilrsqad!iJhrixheihrib ajiehyqidjldixc
djqiaxbbxoisxtsxhrqm

ii*i*i*i*i*i*

VqkxogidjqiG XGQAHBX,idjhrirkrdqbigxqrioxdistxaqqg,iholrb ajilridjq
SxtsxhrqihridjqirbleeqrdixcidjqinjleqrmiLvx.q,ikx ijl.qileeidjq
Eq.hldjlorixcioxdqmiV didjqtqiltqilitlvveqixci oaqtdlho,ic uhdh.q,
jlec-clv ex rinjleqr,injhaj,ilriloiLbqthaloinjleqblo,iHiyoxnivk
tqs dldhxo,iv dioxdisqtrxoleekmiHirjleeiqo bqtldqidjqbivkidjqht
cxtq-alrdeqilssqeeldhxor;icxtisxrrhvekir ajiliehrdiblkivqi.le lveqidx
c d tqiho.qrdhuldxtr,injxiblkiaxbseqdqinjldiHijl.qijqtqiv divqu omiHc
lokixcidjqicxeexnhouinjleqr,irjleeijqtqlcdqtivqial ujdilogibltyqg,idjqo
jqialoitqlghekivqihoaxtsxtldqgihodxidjhriRkrdqb,ilaaxtghouidxijhr
Cxehx,iXadl.x,ixtiG xgqahbxibluohd gq:—DjqiVxddeq-OxrqiNjleq;idjqiF oy
Njleq;idjqiS gghou-JqlgqgiNjleq;idjqiAlsqiNjleq;idjqiEqlghouiNjleq;idjq
AlooxoiNjleq;idjqiRatluuiNjleq;idjqiAxssqtqgiNjleq;idjqiQeqsjlodiNjleq;
djqiHaqvqtuiNjleq;idjqiZ xuiNjleq;idjqiVe qiNjleq;iqdamiCtxbiHaqelogha,
G daj,ilogixegiQouehrjil djxthdhqr,idjqtqibhujdivqiz xdqgixdjqtiehrdr
xci oaqtdlhoinjleqr,iveqrrqginhdjileeiblooqtixci oax djiolbqrmiV diH
xbhdidjqbilriledxuqdjqtixvrxeqdq;ilogialoijltgekijqesir rsqadhouidjqb
cxtibqtqirx ogr,ic eeixciEq.hldjlohrb,iv dirhuohckhouioxdjhoum

Choleek:iHdinlrirdldqgildidjqix drqd,idjldidjhrirkrdqbinx egioxdivq
jqtq,ilogildixoaq,isqtcqadqgmiKx ialooxdiv diselhoekirqqidjldiHijl.q
yqsdibkinxtgmiV diHioxnieql.qibkiaqdxexuhaleiRkrdqbirdloghouidj r
 ochohrjqg,iq.qoilridjqiutqldiAldjqgtleixciAxexuoqinlrieqcd,inhdjidjq
atloqirdheeirdloghoui sxoidjqidxsixcidjqi oaxbseqdqgidxnqtmiCxtirblee
qtqadhxoriblkivqichohrjqgivkidjqhtichtrdiltajhdqadr;iutlogixoqr,idt q
xoqr,iq.qtieql.qidjqiaxsqrdxoqidxisxrdqthdkmiUxgiyqqsibqictxbiq.qt
axbseqdhouilokdjhoumiDjhrinjxeqivxxyihriv diligtl ujd—olk,iv didjq
gtl ujdixciligtl ujdmiXj,iDhbq,iRdtqoudj,iAlrj,ilogiSldhqoaq!


AJLSDQTi33miDjqiRsqayrokgqtm

Axoaqtohouidjqixcchaqtrixcidjqinjleq-atlcd,idjhrirqqbrilriuxxgiliselaq
lrilokidxirqdigxnoiliehddeqigxbqrdhaisqa ehlthdkixoirjhs-vxltg,ilthrhou
ctxbidjqiqphrdqoaqixcidjqijltsxxoqqtiaelrrixcixcchaqtr,iliaelrri oyoxno
xciax trqihoilokixdjqtiblthoqidjloidjqinjleq-ceqqdm

Djqieltuqihbsxtdloaqilddlajqgidxidjqijltsxxoqqt’ri.xaldhxoihriq.hoaqg
vkidjqiclad,idjldixthuholeekihoidjqixegiG dajiChrjqtk,idnxiaqod thqr
logibxtqilux,idjqiaxbblogixcilinjleqirjhsinlrioxdinjxeekiexguqgihoidjq
sqtrxoioxnialeeqgidjqialsdlho,iv dinlrigh.hgqgivqdnqqoijhbilogilo
xcchaqtialeeqgidjqiRsqayrokgqtmiEhdqtleekidjhrinxtgibqloriCld-A ddqt;
 rluq,ijxnq.qt,ihoidhbqiblgqihdiqz h.leqodidxiAjhqciJltsxxoqqtmiHo
djxrqiglkr,idjqialsdlho’ril djxthdkinlritqrdthadqgidxidjqiol.huldhxo
logiuqoqtleibloluqbqodixcidjqi.qrrqe;injheqix.qtidjqinjleq-j odhou
gqsltdbqodilogileeihdriaxoaqtor,idjqiRsqayrokgqtixtiAjhqciJltsxxoqqt
tqhuoqgir stqbqmiHoidjqiVthdhrjiUtqqoelogiChrjqtk,i ogqtidjqiaxtt sdqg
dhdeqixciRsqayrhxoqqt,idjhrixegiG dajixcchahleihrirdheeitqdlhoqg,iv d
jhricxtbqtighuohdkihrirlgekilvthguqgmiLdistqrqodijqitloyrirhbsekilr
rqohxtiJltsxxoqqt;ilogilrir aj,ihriv dixoqixcidjqialsdlho’ribxtq
hocqthxtir vledqtormiOq.qtdjqeqrr,ilri sxoidjqiuxxgiaxog adixcidjq
jltsxxoqqtridjqir aaqrrixcilinjlehoui.xkluqieltuqekigqsqogr,ilogirhoaq
hoidjqiLbqthaloiChrjqtkijqihrioxdixoekiloihbsxtdlodixcchaqtihoidjq
vxld,iv di ogqtiaqtdlhoiahta brdloaqri(ohujdinldajqrixoilinjlehou
utx og)idjqiaxbblogixcidjqirjhs’rigqayihrilerxijhr;idjqtqcxtqidjqiutlog
sxehdhaleiblphbixcidjqirqligqblogr,idjldijqirjx egioxbholeekieh.qilsltd
ctxbidjqibqoivqcxtqidjqiblrd,ilogivqihoirxbqinlkighrdhou hrjqgilridjqht
stxcqrrhxoleir sqthxt;idjx ujilenlkr,ivkidjqb,iclbhehltekitqultgqgilr
djqhtirxahleiqz lem

Oxn,idjqiutlogighrdhoadhxoigtlnoivqdnqqoixcchaqtilogibloildirql,ihr
djhr—djqichtrdieh.qrilcd,idjqielrdicxtnltgmiJqoaq,ihoinjleq-rjhsrilog
bqtajlodbqoilehyq,idjqibldqrijl.qidjqhtiz ltdqtrinhdjidjqialsdlho;ilog
rx,idxx,ihoibxrdixcidjqiLbqthaloinjleqtridjqijltsxxoqqtriltqiexguqgiho
djqilcdqtisltdixcidjqirjhsmiDjldihridxirlk,idjqkidlyqidjqhtibqleriho
djqialsdlho’rialvho,ilogireqqsihoiliselaqihoghtqadekiaxbb ohaldhouinhdj
hdm

Djx ujidjqiexouisqthxgixciliRx djqtoinjlehoui.xkluqi(vkicltidjqiexouqrd
xcileei.xkluqrioxnixtiq.qtiblgqivkiblo),idjqisqa ehltisqtherixcihd,ilog
djqiaxbb ohdkixcihodqtqrdistq.lhehouilbxouiliaxbslok,ileeixcinjxb,ijhuj
xtiexn,igqsqogicxtidjqhtistxchdr,ioxdi sxoichpqginluqr,iv di sxoidjqht
axbbxoie ay,idxuqdjqtinhdjidjqhtiaxbbxoi.huheloaq,ihodtqshghdk,ilog
jltginxty;idjx ujileeidjqrqidjhourigxihoirxbqialrqridqogidxivquqdil
eqrrithuxtx righrahsehoqidjloihoibqtajlodbqoiuqoqtleek;ikqd,ioq.qtibhog
jxnib ajiehyqiloixegiBqrxsxdlbhloiclbhekidjqrqinjleqbqoiblk,ihoirxbq
sthbhdh.qihordloaqr,ieh.qidxuqdjqt;icxtileeidjld,idjqis oadhehx r
qpdqtoler,ildieqlrd,ixcidjqiz ltdqt-gqayiltqirqegxbibldqthleekitqelpqg,
logihoioxihordloaqigxoqilnlkmiHogqqg,iblokiltqidjqiOlod ayqdirjhsriho
njhajikx inheeirqqidjqiryhssqtisltlghouijhriz ltdqt-gqayinhdjiloiqeldqg
utlogq tioxdir tslrrqgihoilokibhehdltkiol.k;iolk,iqpdxtdhouilebxrdilr
b ajix dnltgijxbluqilrihcijqinxtqidjqihbsqthleis tseq,ilogioxdidjq
rjlvvhqrdixcishexd-aexdjm

Logidjx ujixcileeibqoidjqibxxgkialsdlhoixcidjqiSqz xginlridjqieqlrd
uh.qoidxidjldirxtdixcirjleexnqrdilrr bsdhxo;ilogidjx ujidjqixoekijxbluq
jqiq.qtiqpladqg,inlrihbsehahd,ihordlodloqx rixvqghqoaq;idjx ujijq
tqz htqgioxibloidxitqbx.qidjqirjxqrictxbijhricqqdiqtqirdqsshoui sxoidjq
z ltdqt-gqay;ilogidjx ujidjqtqinqtqidhbqrinjqo,ixnhouidxisqa ehlt
ahta brdloaqriaxooqadqginhdjiq.qodrijqtqlcdqtidxivqigqdlheqg,ijq
lggtqrrqgidjqbihoi o r leidqtbr,injqdjqtixciaxogqraqorhxoixti_ho
dqttxtqb_,ixtixdjqtnhrq;ikqdiq.qoiAlsdlhoiLjlvinlrivkioxibqlor
 oxvrqt.lodixcidjqisltlbx odicxtbrilogi rluqrixcidjqirqlm

Oxt,isqtjlsr,inheeihdiclheidxivqiq.qod leekisqtaqh.qg,idjldivqjhog
djxrqicxtbrilogi rluqr,ilrihdinqtq,ijqirxbqdhbqriblryqgijhbrqec;
hoahgqodleekiblyhoui rqixcidjqbicxtixdjqtilogibxtqisth.ldqiqogridjlo
djqkinqtqiequhdhbldqekihodqogqgidxir vrqt.qmiDjldiaqtdlhoir edlohrbixc
jhrivtlho,injhajijlgixdjqtnhrqihoiliuxxgigqutqqitqblhoqgi oblohcqrdqg;
djtx ujidjxrqicxtbridjldirlbqir edlohrbivqalbqihoaltoldqihoilo
httqrhrdhveqighadldxtrjhsmiCxtivqiliblo’rihodqeeqad leir sqthxthdkinjld
hdinhee,ihdialoioq.qtilrr bqidjqistladhale,il.lhelveqir stqblakix.qt
xdjqtibqo,inhdjx didjqilhgixcirxbqirxtdixciqpdqtoleiltdrilog
qodtqoajbqodr,ilenlkr,ihoidjqbrqe.qr,ibxtqixtieqrrisledtkilogivlrqm
Djhrihdihr,idjldicxtiq.qtiyqqsriUxg’ridt qisthoaqrixcidjqiQbshtqictxb
djqinxteg’rij rdhour;ilogieql.qridjqijhujqrdijxoxtridjldidjhrilhtialo
uh.q,idxidjxrqibqoinjxivqaxbqiclbx ribxtqidjtx ujidjqhtihochohdq
hocqthxthdkidxidjqiajxhaqijhggqoijlogc eixcidjqiGh.hoqiHoqtd,idjlo
djtx ujidjqhti ogx vdqgir sqthxthdkix.qtidjqigqlgieq.qeixcidjqiblrrm
R ajieltuqi.htd qie tyrihoidjqrqirbleeidjhourinjqoiqpdtqbqisxehdhale
r sqtrdhdhxoriho.qrdidjqb,idjldihoirxbqitxkleihordloaqriq.qoidxihghxd
hbvqahehdkidjqkijl.qihbsltdqgisxdqoakmiV dinjqo,ilrihoidjqialrqixc
OhajxelridjqiAwlt,idjqithouqgiatxnoixciuqxutlsjhaleiqbshtqiqoahtaeqrilo
hbsqthleivtlho;idjqo,idjqiseqvqhloijqtgriatx ajilvlrqgivqcxtqidjq
dtqbqogx riaqodtlehwldhxomiOxt,inheeidjqidtluhaigtlbldhrdinjxinx eg
gqshadibxtdleihogxbhdlveqoqrrihoihdric eeqrdirnqqsilogightqadirnhou,
q.qticxtuqdilijhod,ihoahgqodleekirxihbsxtdlodihoijhriltd,ilridjqixoq
oxnilee gqgidxm

V diLjlv,ibkiAlsdlho,irdheeibx.qrivqcxtqibqihoileeijhriOlod ayqd
uthboqrrilogirjluuhoqrr;ilogihoidjhriqshrxgqidx ajhouiQbsqtxtrilog
Yhour,iHib rdioxdiaxoaqleidjldiHijl.qixoekidxigxinhdjilisxxtixeg
njleq-j odqtiehyqijhb;ilog,idjqtqcxtq,ileeix dnltgiblfqrdhaleidtlsshour
logijx rhouriltqigqohqgibqmiXj,iLjlv!injldirjleeivqiutlogihoidjqq,ihd
b rdioqqgrivqise ayqgildictxbidjqiryhqr,ilogigh.qgicxtihoidjqigqqs,ilog
cqld tqgihoidjqi ovxghqgilht!


AJLSDQTi34miDjqiAlvho-Dlveqm

Hdihrioxxo;ilogiGx uj-Vxk,idjqirdqnltg,idjt rdhouijhrisleq
exlc-xc-vtqlgiclaqictxbidjqialvho-ra ddeq,iloox oaqrighooqtidxijhriextg
logiblrdqt;injx,irhddhouihoidjqieqqiz ltdqt-vxld,ijlrif rdivqqoidlyhou
loixvrqt.ldhxoixcidjqir o;ilogihrioxnib dqekitqayxohouidjqieldhd gqixo
djqirbxxdj,ibqgleehxo-rjlsqgidlveqd,itqrqt.qgicxtidjldiglhekis tsxrqixo
djqi ssqtisltdixcijhrih.xtkiequmiCtxbijhriaxbseqdqiholddqodhxoidxidjq
dhghour,ikx inx egidjhoyidjldibxxgkiLjlvijlgioxdijqltgijhribqohlemiV d
stqrqodek,ialdajhouijxegixcidjqibhwqoirjtx gr,ijqirnhourijhbrqecidxidjq
gqay,ilogihoiloiq.qo,i oqpjheltldqgi.xhaq,irlkhou,i“Ghooqt,iBtm
Rdltv ay,”ighrlssqltrihodxidjqialvhom

Njqoidjqielrdiqajxixcijhrir edlo’rirdqsijlrighqgilnlk,ilogiRdltv ay,
djqichtrdiQbht,ijlriq.qtkitqlrxoidxir ssxrqidjldijqihrirqldqg,idjqo
Rdltv ayitx rqrictxbijhriz hqd gq,idlyqrilicqnid torilexouidjqiseloyr,
log,ilcdqtiliutl.qisqqsihodxidjqivhoolaeq,irlkr,inhdjirxbqidx ajixc
seqlrlodoqrr,i“Ghooqt,iBtmiRd vv,”ilogigqraqogridjqira ddeqmiDjqirqaxog
Qbhtiex ouqrilvx didjqithuuhouilnjheq,ilogidjqoirehujdekirjlyhouidjq
blhoivtlaq,idxirqqinjqdjqtihdinheeivqileeithujdinhdjidjldihbsxtdlod
txsq,ijqiehyqnhrqidlyqri sidjqixegiv tgqo,iloginhdjilitlshgi“Ghooqt,
BtmiCelry,”icxeexnrilcdqtijhristqgqaqrrxtrm

V didjqidjhtgiQbht,ioxnirqqhouijhbrqecileeilexoqixoidjqiz ltdqt-gqay,
rqqbridxicqqeitqehq.qgictxbirxbqia thx ritqrdtlhod;icxt,idhsshouilee
rxtdrixciyoxnhouinhoyrihoileeirxtdrixcightqadhxor,ilogiyhayhouixccijhr
rjxqr,ijqirdthyqrihodxilirjltsiv dioxhrqeqrrirz leeixcilijxtoshsqithujd
x.qtidjqiUtlogiD ty’rijqlg;ilogidjqo,ivkiligqpdqtx rireqhujd,ishdajhou
jhrialsi sihodxidjqibhwqodxsicxtilirjqec,ijqiuxqrigxnoitxeehayhouirx
cltildieqlrdilrijqitqblhori.hrhveqictxbidjqigqay,itq.qtrhouileeixdjqt
stxaqrrhxor,ivkivthouhoui sidjqitqltinhdjib rhamiV diqtqirdqsshouihodx
djqialvhoigxxtnlkivqexn,ijqisl rqr,irjhsrilioqniclaqiledxuqdjqt,ilog,
djqo,ihogqsqogqod,ijhelthx riehddeqiCelryiqodqtriYhouiLjlv’ristqrqoaq,
hoidjqiajltladqtixciLvfqad r,ixtidjqiRel.qm

Hdihrioxdidjqieqlrdilbxouidjqirdtlouqidjhourivtqgivkidjqihodqorq
ltdhchahleoqrrixcirql- rluqr,idjldinjheqihoidjqixsqoilhtixcidjqigqay
rxbqixcchaqtrinhee,i sxoistx.xaldhxo,ivqltidjqbrqe.qrivxegekilog
gqckhouekiqox ujidxnltgridjqhtiaxbblogqt;ikqd,idqoidxixoq,ieqdidjxrq
.qtkixcchaqtridjqioqpdibxbqodiuxigxnoidxidjqhtia rdxbltkighooqtihoidjld
rlbqiaxbblogqt’rialvho,ilogirdtlhujdnlkidjqhtihoxccqorh.q,ioxdidxirlk
gqstqaldxtkilogij bveqilhtidxnltgrijhb,ilrijqirhdrildidjqijqlgixcidjq
dlveq;idjhrihriblt.qeex r,irxbqdhbqribxrdiaxbhalemiNjqtqcxtqidjhr
ghccqtqoaq?iListxveqb?iSqtjlsrioxdmiDxijl.qivqqoiVqerjlwwlt,iYhouixc
Vlvkexo;ilogidxijl.qivqqoiVqerjlwwlt,ioxdijl ujdhekiv diax tdqx rek,
djqtqhoiaqtdlhoekib rdijl.qivqqoirxbqidx ajixcib ogloqiutlogq tmiV dijq
njxihoidjqithujdekitquleilogihodqeehuqodirshthdistqrhgqrix.qtijhrixno
sth.ldqighooqt-dlveqixciho.hdqgiu qrdr,idjldiblo’ri oajleeqouqgisxnqt
logigxbhohxoixcihogh.hg leihoce qoaqicxtidjqidhbq;idjldiblo’ritxkledk
xcirdldqidtloraqogriVqerjlwwlt’r,icxtiVqerjlwwltinlrioxdidjqiutqldqrdm
Njxijlriv dixoaqighoqgijhricthqogr,ijlridlrdqginjldihdihridxivqiAærltm
Hdihrilinhdajqtkixcirxahleiawltrjhsinjhajidjqtqihrioxinhdjrdloghoum
Oxn,ihcidxidjhriaxorhgqtldhxoikx ir sqtlggidjqixcchahleir stqblakixcil
rjhs-blrdqt,idjqo,ivkihocqtqoaq,ikx inheeigqth.qidjqial rqixcidjld
sqa ehlthdkixcirql-ehcqif rdibqodhxoqgm

X.qtijhrih.xtk-hoelhgidlveq,iLjlvistqrhgqgiehyqilib dq,ibloqgirql-ehxo
xoidjqinjhdqiaxtleivqlaj,ir ttx ogqgivkijhrinltehyqiv dirdhee
gqcqtqodhleia vrmiHoijhrixnoistxsqtid to,iqlajixcchaqtinlhdqgidxivq
rqt.qgmiDjqkinqtqilriehddeqiajhegtqoivqcxtqiLjlv;ilogikqd,ihoiLjlv,
djqtqirqqbqgioxdidxie tyidjqirbleeqrdirxahleilttxuloaqmiNhdjixoqibhog,
djqhtihodqodiqkqrileeiclrdqoqgi sxoidjqixegiblo’riyohcq,ilrijqialt.qg
djqiajhqcighrjivqcxtqijhbmiHigxioxdir ssxrqidjldicxtidjqinxtegidjqk
nx egijl.qistxcloqgidjldibxbqodinhdjidjqirehujdqrdixvrqt.ldhxo,iq.qo
 sxoirxioq dtleilidxshailridjqinqldjqtmiOx!iLoginjqoitqlajhouix dijhr
yohcqilogicxty,ivqdnqqoinjhajidjqirehaqixcivqqcinlriexayqg,iLjlv
djqtqvkibxdhxoqgiRdltv ay’riseldqidxnltgrijhb,idjqibldqitqaqh.qgijhr
bqldilridjx ujitqaqh.houilebr;ilogia dihdidqogqtek;ilogiliehddeq
rdltdqgihc,isqtajloaq,idjqiyohcqiutlwqgilulhordidjqiseldq;ilogiajqnqg
hdioxhrqeqrrek;ilogirnleexnqgihd,ioxdinhdjx diahta brsqadhxomiCxt,iehyq
djqiAxtxoldhxoivloz qdildiCtloycxtd,injqtqidjqiUqtbloiQbsqtxt
stxcx ogekighoqrinhdjidjqirq.qoiHbsqthleiQeqadxtr,irxidjqrqialvhoibqler
nqtqirxbqjxnirxeqboibqler,iqldqoihoilnc eirheqoaq;ilogikqdildidlveqixeg
Ljlvicxtvlgqioxdiaxo.qtrldhxo;ixoekijqijhbrqecinlrig bvmiNjldilitqehqc
hdinlridxiajxyhouiRd vv,injqoilitldiblgqilir ggqoitlayqdihoidjqijxeg
vqexnmiLogisxxtiehddeqiCelry,ijqinlridjqikx ouqrdirxo,ilogiehddeqivxk
xcidjhrinqltkiclbhekisltdkmiJhrinqtqidjqirjhovxoqrixcidjqirlehoqivqqc;
jhrinx egijl.qivqqoidjqigt brdhayrmiCxtiCelryidxijl.qistqr bqgidxijqes
jhbrqec,idjhrib rdijl.qirqqbqgidxijhbidlodlbx odidxieltaqokihoidjq
chtrdigqutqqmiJlgijqijqesqgijhbrqecildidjldidlveq,igx vdeqrr,ioq.qt
bxtqinx egijqijl.qivqqoilveqidxijxegijhrijqlgi sihoidjhrijxoqrdinxteg;
oq.qtdjqeqrr,irdtlouqidxirlk,iLjlvioq.qticxtvlgqijhbmiLogijlgiCelry
jqesqgijhbrqec,idjqiajloaqrinqtqiLjlvijlgioq.qtirxib ajilrioxdhaqgihdm
Eqlrdixcilee,ighgiCelryistqr bqidxijqesijhbrqecidxiv ddqtmiNjqdjqtijq
djx ujdidjqixnoqtrixcidjqirjhsigqohqgihdidxijhb,ixoilaax odixcihdr
aexddhouijhriaeqlt,ir ookiaxbseqphxo;ixtinjqdjqtijqigqqbqgidjld,ixoirx
exouili.xkluqihoir ajibltyqdeqrrinldqtr,iv ddqtinlrildilistqbh b,ilog
djqtqcxtqinlrioxdicxtijhb,ilir vledqto;ijxnq.qtihdinlr,iCelry,ilelr!
nlriliv ddqteqrriblo!

LoxdjqtidjhoumiCelryinlridjqielrdisqtrxoigxnoildidjqighooqt,ilogiCelry
hridjqichtrdibloi smiAxorhgqt!iCxtijqtqvkiCelry’righooqtinlrivlgek
flbbqgihoisxhodixcidhbqmiRdltv ayilogiRd vvivxdjijlgidjqirdltdixcijhb;
logikqdidjqkilerxijl.qidjqisth.hequqixciex ouhouihoidjqitqltmiHciRd vv
q.qo,injxihriv dilisquijhujqtidjloiCelry,ijlssqoridxijl.qiv dilirblee
lssqdhdq,ilogirxxoirjxnrirkbsdxbrixciaxoae ghouijhritqslrd,idjqoiCelry
b rdivqrdhtijhbrqec,ijqinheeioxdiuqdibxtqidjloidjtqqibx djc eridjld
glk;icxtihdihrilulhordijxeki rluqicxtiRd vvidxistqaqgqiCelryidxidjq
gqaymiDjqtqcxtqihdinlridjldiCelryixoaqilgbhddqgihoisth.ldq,idjldiq.qt
rhoaqijqijlgilthrqoidxidjqighuohdkixciloixcchaqt,ictxbidjldibxbqodijq
jlgioq.qtiyoxnoinjldihdinlridxivqixdjqtnhrqidjloij outk,ibxtqixtieqrrm
Cxtinjldijqildqighgioxdirxib ajitqehq.qijhrij ouqt,ilriyqqsihdihbbxtdle
hoijhbmiSqlaqilogirldhrcladhxo,idjx ujdiCelry,ijl.qicxtiq.qtigqsltdqg
ctxbibkirdxblajmiHilbiloixcchaqt;iv d,ijxniHinhrjiHiax egichrjilivhdixc
xeg-clrjhxoqgivqqcihoidjqicxtqalrdeq,ilriHi rqgidxinjqoiHinlrivqcxtq
djqiblrdmiDjqtq’ridjqict hdrixcistxbxdhxoioxn;idjqtq’ridjqi.lohdkixc
uextk:idjqtq’ridjqihorlohdkixciehcq!iVqrhgqr,ihcihdinqtqirxidjldilok
bqtqirlhextixcidjqiSqz xgijlgiliut guqilulhordiCelryihoiCelry’r
xcchahleialslahdk,ileeidjldirlhextijlgidxigx,ihoixtgqtidxixvdlhoilbseq
.qouqloaq,inlridxiuxilcdildighooqt-dhbq,ilogiuqdilisqqsildiCelry
djtx ujidjqialvhoiryk-ehujd,irhddhouirheekilogig bcx ogqtqgivqcxtq
lnc eiLjlvm

Oxn,iLjlvilogijhridjtqqibldqricxtbqginjldiblkivqialeeqgidjqichtrdidlveq
hoidjqiSqz xg’rialvhomiLcdqtidjqhtigqsltd tq,idlyhouiselaqihoiho.qtdqg
xtgqtidxidjqhtiltth.le,idjqialo.lriaexdjinlriaeqltqg,ixtitldjqtinlr
tqrdxtqgidxirxbqij tthqgixtgqtivkidjqisleehgirdqnltgmiLogidjqoidjq
djtqqijltsxxoqqtrinqtqivhggqoidxidjqicqlrd,idjqkivqhouihdritqrhg ltk
equldqqrmiDjqkiblgqilirxtdixcidqbsxtltkirqt.lodr’ijleeixcidjqijhujilog
bhujdkialvhom

Hoirdtlouqiaxodtlrdidxidjqijltgekidxeqtlveqiaxordtlhodilogiolbqeqrr
ho.hrhveqigxbhoqqthourixcidjqialsdlho’ridlveq,inlridjqiqodhtqialtq-ctqq
ehaqorqilogiqlrq,idjqilebxrdictlodhaigqbxatlakixcidjxrqihocqthxt
cqeexnridjqijltsxxoqqtrmiNjheqidjqhtiblrdqtr,idjqibldqr,irqqbqgilctlhg
xcidjqirx ogixcidjqijhouqrixcidjqhtixnoiflnr,idjqijltsxxoqqtriajqnqg
djqhticxxginhdjir ajilitqehrjidjldidjqtqinlrilitqsxtdidxihdmiDjqkighoqg
ehyqiextgr;idjqkicheeqgidjqhtivqeehqriehyqiHoghloirjhsrileeiglkiexlghou
nhdjirshaqrmiR ajisxtdqodx rilssqdhdqrijlgiZ qqz quilogiDlrjdqux,idjld
dxicheeix didjqi.laloahqriblgqivkidjqistq.hx ritqslrd,ixcdqoidjqisleq
Gx uj-Vxkinlriclhoidxivthouixoiliutqldivltxoixcirled-f oy,irqqbhouek
z ltthqgix dixcidjqirxehgixpmiLogihcijqinqtqioxdieh.qekilvx dihd,ihcijq
ghgioxdiuxinhdjiliohbveqijxs-ryhs-log-f bs,idjqoiDlrjdquxijlgilo
 ouqodeqbloekinlkixcilaaqeqtldhouijhbivkigltdhouilicxtyildijhrivlay,
jltsxxo-nhrqmiLogixoaqiGluuxx,irqhwqginhdjilir ggqoij bxt,ilrrhrdqg
Gx uj-Vxk’ribqbxtkivkiroldajhouijhbi sivxghek,ilogidjt rdhouijhrijqlg
hodxiliutqldiqbsdkinxxgqoidtqoajqt,injheqiDlrjdqux,iyohcqihoijlog,
vquloielkhouix didjqiahtaeqistqehbholtkidxiraleshouijhbmiJqinlr
old tleekili.qtkioqt.x r,irj ggqthouirxtdixciehddeqicqeexn,idjhr
vtqlg-claqgirdqnltg;idjqistxuqokixcilivloyt sdivlyqtilogilijxrshdle
o trqmiLoginjldinhdjidjqirdloghouirsqadlaeqixcidjqivelayidqtthchaiLjlv,
logidjqisqthxghaleid b ed x ri.hrhdldhxorixcidjqrqidjtqqirl.luqr,
Gx uj-Vxk’rinjxeqiehcqinlrixoqiaxodho leiehs-z h.qtmiAxbbxoek,ilcdqt
rqqhouidjqijltsxxoqqtric tohrjqginhdjileeidjhouridjqkigqblogqg,ijq
nx egiqralsqictxbidjqhtiae dajqrihodxijhriehddeqislodtkilgfxhohou,ilog
cqltc eekisqqsix dildidjqbidjtx ujidjqivehogrixcihdrigxxt,idheeileeinlr
x.qtm

HdinlrilirhujdidxirqqiZ qqz quirqldqgix.qtilulhordiDlrjdqux,ixssxrhou
jhricheqgidqqdjidxidjqiHoghlo’r:iatxrrnhrqidxidjqb,iGluuxxirqldqgixo
djqicexxt,icxtilivqoajinx egijl.qivtx ujdijhrijqltrq-se bqgijqlgidxidjq
exnialtehoqr;ildiq.qtkibxdhxoixcijhriaxexrrleiehbvr,iblyhouidjqiexn
alvhoictlbqnxtyidxirjlyq,ilrinjqoiloiLcthaloiqeqsjlodiuxqrislrrqouqtiho
lirjhsmiV dicxtileeidjhr,idjqiutqldioqutxinlrinxogqtc eekilvrdqbhx r,
oxdidxirlkiglhodkmiHdirqqbqgijltgekisxrrhveqidjldivkir ajiaxbsltldh.qek
rbleeibx djc erijqiax egiyqqsi sidjqi.hdlehdkighcc rqgidjtx ujirx
vtxlg,ivltxohle,ilogir sqtvilisqtrxomiV d,igx vdeqrr,idjhrioxveqirl.luq
cqgirdtxouilogigtloyigqqsixcidjqilvx oghouiqeqbqodixcilht;ilogidjtx uj
jhrigheldqgioxrdtheriro ccqgihoidjqir vehbqiehcqixcidjqinxtegrmiOxdivk
vqqcixtivkivtqlg,iltqiuhlodriblgqixtiox thrjqgmiV diZ qqz qu,ijqijlgil
bxtdle,ivltvlthairblayixcidjqiehsihoiqldhou—loi uekirx ogiqox uj—rx
b ajirx,idjldidjqidtqbvehouiGx uj-Vxkilebxrdiexxyqgidxirqqinjqdjqtilok
bltyrixcidqqdjie tyqgihoijhrixnoieqloiltbrmiLoginjqoijqinx egijqlt
Dlrjdquxirhouhouix dicxtijhbidxistxg aqijhbrqec,idjldijhrivxoqribhujd
vqishayqg,idjqirhbseq-nhddqgirdqnltgileeiv dirjlddqtqgidjqiatxayqtk
jlouhouitx ogijhbihoidjqislodtk,ivkijhrir ggqoichdrixcidjqislerkmiOxt
ghgidjqinjqdrdxoqinjhajidjqijltsxxoqqtrialtthqgihoidjqhtisxayqdr,icxt
djqhtieloaqrilogixdjqtinqlsxor;iloginhdjinjhajinjqdrdxoqr,ildighooqt,
djqkinx egixrdqodldhx rekirjltsqoidjqhtiyoh.qr;idjldiutldhouirx ogighg
oxdildileeidqogidxidtloz heehwqisxxtiGx uj-VxkmiJxniax egijqicxtuqd
djldihoijhriHrelogiglkr,iZ qqz qu,icxtixoq,ib rdiaqtdlhoekijl.qivqqo
u hedkixcirxbqib tgqtx r,iaxo.h.hleihoghratqdhxormiLelr!iGx uj-Vxk!
jltgicltqridjqinjhdqinlhdqtinjxinlhdri sxoialoohvlermiOxdiliolsyho
rjx egijqialttkixoijhriltb,iv diliv ayeqtmiHoiuxxgidhbq,idjx uj,idxijhr
utqldigqehujd,idjqidjtqqirled-rqlinltthxtrinx egithrqilogigqsltd;idx
jhriatqg ex r,iclveq-bxouqthouiqltr,ileeidjqhtibltdhleivxoqrifhouehou
hoidjqbildiq.qtkirdqs,iehyqiBxxthrjirahbqdltrihoiralvvltgrm

V d,idjx ujidjqrqivltvlthlorighoqgihoidjqialvho,ilogioxbholeekieh.qg
djqtq;irdhee,ivqhouilokdjhouiv dirqgqodltkihoidjqhtijlvhdr,idjqkinqtq
raltaqekiq.qtihoihdiqpaqsdildibqledhbqr,ilogif rdivqcxtqireqqshou-dhbq,
njqoidjqkislrrqgidjtx ujihdidxidjqhtixnoisqa ehltiz ltdqtrm

Hoidjhrixoqiblddqt,iLjlvirqqbqgioxiqpaqsdhxoidxibxrdiLbqthaloinjleq
alsdlhor,injx,ilrilirqd,itldjqtihoaehoqidxidjqixshohxoidjldivkithujdr
djqirjhs’rialvhoivqexouridxidjqb;ilogidjldihdihrivkiax tdqrkilexoqidjld
lokvxgkiqerqihr,ildilokidhbq,isqtbhddqgidjqtqmiRxidjld,ihoitqleidt dj,
djqibldqrilogijltsxxoqqtrixcidjqiSqz xgibhujdibxtqistxsqtekivqirlhgidx
jl.qieh.qgix dixcidjqialvhoidjloihoihdmiCxtinjqoidjqkighgiqodqtihd,ihd
nlrirxbqdjhouilrilirdtqqd-gxxtiqodqtrilijx rq;id tohouihonltgricxtil
bxbqod,ixoekidxivqid toqgix didjqioqpd;ilog,ilrilisqtbloqodidjhou,
tqrhghouihoidjqixsqoilhtmiOxtighgidjqkiexrqib ajijqtqvk;ihoidjqialvho
nlrioxiaxbslohxorjhs;irxahleek,iLjlvinlriholaaqrrhveqmiDjx ujioxbholeek
hoae gqgihoidjqiaqor rixciAjthrdqogxb,ijqinlrirdheeiloilehqoidxihdmiJq
eh.qgihoidjqinxteg,ilridjqielrdixcidjqiUthrekiVqltrieh.qgihoirqddeqg
Bhrrx thmiLogilrinjqoiRsthouilogiR bbqtijlgigqsltdqg,idjldinhegiExulo
xcidjqinxxgr,iv tkhouijhbrqecihoidjqijxeexnixcilidtqq,ieh.qgix didjq
nhodqtidjqtq,ir ayhouijhrixnoislnr;irx,ihoijhrihoaeqbqod,ijxnehouixeg
luq,iLjlv’rirx e,irj di sihoidjqial.qgidt oyixcijhrivxgk,idjqtqicqg
 sxoidjqir eeqoislnrixcihdriuexxb!


AJLSDQTi35miDjqiBlrd-Jqlgm

Hdinlrig thouidjqibxtqiseqlrlodinqldjqt,idjldihoig qitxdldhxoinhdjidjq
xdjqtirqlbqoibkichtrdiblrd-jqlgialbqitx ogm

HoibxrdiLbqthaloinjleqbqoidjqiblrd-jqlgriltqiblooqgilebxrd
rhb edloqx rekinhdjidjqi.qrrqe’rieql.houijqtisxtd;iq.qoidjx ujirjqiblk
jl.qichcdqqoidjx rlogibheqr,ilogibxtq,idxirlheiqtqitqlajhouijqtistxsqt
at hrhouiutx ogmiLogihc,ilcdqtilidjtqq,icx t,ixtich.qikqltr’i.xkluqirjq
hrigtlnhouiohujijxbqinhdjilokdjhouiqbsdkihoijqt—rlk,iloiqbsdki.hle
q.qo—djqo,ijqtiblrd-jqlgriltqiyqsdiblooqgidxidjqielrd;ilogioxdidheeijqt
rykrlhe-sxeqrirlheihoilbxouidjqirshtqrixcidjqisxtd,igxqrirjqiledxuqdjqt
tqehoz hrjidjqijxsqixcialsd thouixoqinjleqibxtqm

Oxn,ilridjqiv rhoqrrixcirdloghouiblrd-jqlgr,ilrjxtqixtilcexld,ihril
.qtkiloahqodilogihodqtqrdhouixoq,ieqdi rihoirxbqibqlr tqiqpsldhldq
jqtqmiHidlyqihd,idjldidjqiqltehqrdirdlogqtrixciblrd-jqlgrinqtqidjqixeg
Quksdhlor;ivqal rq,ihoileeibkitqrqltajqr,iHichogioxoqisthxtidxidjqbm
Cxtidjx ujidjqhtistxuqohdxtr,idjqiv hegqtrixciVlvqe,ib rdigx vdeqrr,ivk
djqhtidxnqt,ijl.qihodqogqgidxitqltidjqiexcdhqrdiblrd-jqlgihoileeiLrhl,
xtiLcthaliqhdjqt;ikqdi(qtqidjqicholeidt ayinlris didxihd)ilridjldiutqld
rdxoqiblrdixcidjqhtriblkivqirlhgidxijl.qiuxoqivkidjqivxltg,ihoidjq
gtqlgiuleqixciUxg’rintldj;idjqtqcxtq,inqialooxdiuh.qidjqrqiVlvqe
v hegqtristhxthdkix.qtidjqiQuksdhlormiLogidjldidjqiQuksdhlorinqtqil
oldhxoixciblrd-jqlgirdlogqtr,ihriloilrrqtdhxoivlrqgi sxoidjqiuqoqtle
vqehqcilbxouiltajæxexuhrdr,idjldidjqichtrdisktlbhgrinqtqicx ogqgicxt
lrdtxoxbhaleis tsxrqr:ilidjqxtkirhou eltekir ssxtdqgivkidjqisqa ehlt
rdlht-ehyqicxtbldhxoixcileeicx tirhgqrixcidjxrqiqghchaqr;injqtqvk,inhdj
stxghuhx riexoui sehcdhourixcidjqhtiequr,idjxrqixegilrdtxoxbqtrinqtq
nxodidxibx odidxidjqilsqp,ilogirhouix dicxtioqnirdltr;iq.qoilridjq
exxy-x drixcilibxgqtoirjhsirhouix dicxtilirlhe,ixtilinjleqif rdivqlthou
hoirhujdmiHoiRlhodiRdkehdqr,idjqiclbx riAjthrdhloijqtbhdixcixegidhbqr,
njxiv hedijhbiliexcdkirdxoqisheeltihoidjqigqrqtdilogirsqodidjqinjxeq
elddqtisxtdhxoixcijhriehcqixoihdrir bbhd,ijxhrdhouijhricxxgictxbidjq
utx oginhdjilidlayeq;ihoijhbinqijl.qilitqbltylveqihordloaqixcil
gl odeqrrirdlogqt-xc-blrd-jqlgr;injxinlrioxdidxivqigth.qoictxbijhr
selaqivkicxurixtictxrdr,itlho,ijlhe,ixtireqqd;iv di.lehlodekiclahou
q.qtkdjhouix didxidjqielrd,iehdqtleekighqgildijhrisxrdmiXcibxgqto
rdlogqtr-xc-blrd-jqlgrinqijl.qiv diliehcqeqrrirqd;ibqtqirdxoq,ihtxo,
logivtxowqibqo;injx,idjx ujinqeeialslveqixciclahouix dilirdhcciuleq,
ltqirdheeiqodhtqekihoaxbsqdqodidxidjqiv rhoqrrixcirhouhouix di sxo
ghrax.qthouilokirdtlouqirhujdmiDjqtqihriOlsxeqxo;injx,i sxoidjqidxsixc
djqiaxe boixci.qogxbq,irdlogrinhdjiltbricxegqg,irxbqixoqij ogtqgilog
chcdkicqqdihoidjqilht;ialtqeqrr,ioxn,injxit eqridjqigqayrivqexn;
njqdjqtiEx hriSjhehssq,iEx hriVeloa,ixtiEx hridjqiGq.hemiUtqld
Nlrjhoudxo,idxx,irdlogrijhujilexcdixoijhridxnqthouiblho-blrdiho
Vledhbxtq,ilogiehyqixoqixciJqta eqr’isheeltr,ijhriaxe boibltyridjld
sxhodixcij bloiutlogq tivqkxoginjhajicqnibxtdlerinheeiuxmiLgbhtle
Oqerxo,ilerx,ixoilialsrdloixciu o-bqdle,irdlogrijhriblrd-jqlgiho
DtlcleultiRz ltq;ilogiq.qtinjqoibxrdixvra tqgivkidjldiExogxoirbxyq,
dxyqoihrikqdiuh.qoidjldilijhggqoijqtxihridjqtq;icxtinjqtqidjqtqihr
rbxyq,ib rdivqichtqmiV dioqhdjqtiutqldiNlrjhoudxo,ioxtiOlsxeqxo,ioxt
Oqerxo,inheeilornqtilirhoueqijlheictxbivqexn,ijxnq.qtiblgekiho.xyqgidx
vqcthqogivkidjqhtiax orqeridjqighrdtladqgigqayri sxoinjhajidjqkiulwq;
jxnq.qtihdiblkivqir tbhrqg,idjldidjqhtirshthdrisqoqdtldqidjtx ujidjq
djhayijlwqixcidjqic d tq,ilogigqratkinjldirjxleriloginjlditxayrib rdivq
rj ooqgm

Hdiblkirqqbi onlttlodlveqidxiax seqihoilokitqrsqadidjqiblrd-jqlg
rdlogqtrixcidjqieloginhdjidjxrqixcidjqirql;iv didjldihoidt djihdihrioxd
rx,ihriselhoekiq.hoaqgivkiloihdqbicxtinjhajiXvqgiBlak,idjqirxeq
jhrdxthloixciOlod ayqd,irdlogrilaax odlveqmiDjqinxtdjkiXvqgidqeeri r,
djldihoidjqiqltekidhbqrixcidjqinjleqichrjqtk,iqtqirjhsrinqtqitqu eltek
el oajqgihois tr hdixcidjqiulbq,idjqisqxseqixcidjldihrelogiqtqadqg
excdkirsltrilexouidjqirql-axlrd,idxinjhajidjqiexxy-x drilraqogqgivk
bqlorixciolheqgiaeqldr,irxbqdjhouilricxneriuxi srdlhtrihoilijqo-jx rqm
LicqnikqltriluxidjhrirlbqiseloinlrilgxsdqgivkidjqiVlkinjleqbqoixciOqn
Wqlelog,injx,i sxoigqratkhouidjqiulbq,iul.qioxdhaqidxidjqitqlgk-blooqg
vxldriohujidjqivqlajmiV didjhria rdxbijlrioxnivqaxbqixvrxeqdq;id toinq
djqoidxidjqixoqistxsqtiblrd-jqlg,idjldixcilinjleq-rjhsildirqlmiDjq
djtqqiblrd-jqlgriltqiyqsdiblooqgictxbir o-thrqidxir o-rqd;idjqirqlbqo
dlyhouidjqhtitqu eltid tori(lrildidjqijqeb),ilogitqehq.houiqlajixdjqt
q.qtkidnxijx trmiHoidjqirqtqoqinqldjqtixcidjqidtxsharihdihriqpaqqghouek
seqlrlodidjqiblrd-jqlg;iolk,idxiligtqlbkibqghdldh.qibloihdihr
gqehujdc emiDjqtqikx irdlog,ilij ogtqgicqqdilvx.qidjqirheqodigqayr,
rdthghouilexouidjqigqqs,ilrihcidjqiblrdrinqtqiuhulodhairdhedr,injheq
vqoqldjikx ilogivqdnqqoikx tiequr,ilrihdinqtq,irnhbidjqij uqrdibxordqtr
xcidjqirql,iq.qoilrirjhsrixoaqirlheqgivqdnqqoidjqivxxdrixcidjqiclbx r
Axexrr rildixegiTjxgqrmiDjqtqikx irdlog,iexrdihoidjqihochohdqirqthqrixc
djqirql,inhdjioxdjhouit cceqgiv didjqinl.qrmiDjqidtloaqgirjhs
hogxeqodekitxeer;idjqigtxnrkidtlgqinhogrivexn;iq.qtkdjhouitqrxe.qrikx 
hodxielou xtmiCxtidjqibxrdisltd,ihoidjhridtxshainjlehouiehcq,ilir vehbq
 oq.qodc eoqrriho.qrdrikx ;ikx ijqltioxioqnr;itqlgioxiulwqddqr;iqpdtlr
nhdjirdltdehouilaax odrixciaxbbxoselaqrioq.qtigqe gqikx ihodx
 ooqaqrrltkiqpahdqbqodr;ikx ijqltixcioxigxbqrdhailccehadhxor;ivloyt sd
rqa thdhqr;icleeixcirdxayr;iltqioq.qtidtx veqginhdjidjqidjx ujdixcinjld
kx irjleeijl.qicxtighooqt—cxtileeikx tibqlericxtidjtqqikqltrilogibxtq
ltqiro uekirdxnqgihoialryr,ilogikx tivheeixcicltqihrihbb dlveqm

Hoixoqixcidjxrqirx djqtoinjleqrbqo,ixoiliexouidjtqqixticx tikqltr’
.xkluq,ilrixcdqoijlssqor,idjqir bixcidjqi.lthx rijx trikx irsqogildidjq
blrd-jqlginx egilbx odidxirq.qtleiqodhtqibxodjrmiLogihdihrib ajidxivq
gqsextqgidjldidjqiselaqidxinjhajikx igq.xdqirxiaxorhgqtlveqilisxtdhxo
xcidjqinjxeqidqtbixcikx tiold tleiehcq,irjx egivqirxirlgekigqrdhd dqixc
lokdjhouilsstxlajhouidxiliaxrkihojlvhdh.qoqrr,ixtilglsdqgidxivtqqgil
axbcxtdlveqiexaleoqrrixcicqqehou,ir ajilrisqtdlhoridxilivqg,ilijlbbxay,
lijqltrq,ilirqodtkivxp,ilis eshd,iliaxlaj,ixtilokixdjqtixcidjxrqirblee
logiro uiaxodth.loaqrihoinjhajibqoidqbsxtlthekihrxeldqidjqbrqe.qrmiKx t
bxrdi r leisxhodixcisqtajihridjqijqlgixcidjqid’iuleelod-blrd,injqtqikx 
rdlogi sxoidnxidjhoisltleeqeirdhayri(lebxrdisqa ehltidxinjleqbqo)
aleeqgidjqid’iuleelodiatxrr-dtqqrmiJqtq,idxrrqgilvx divkidjqirql,idjq
vquhooqticqqerilvx dilriaxrkilrijqinx egirdloghouixoiliv ee’rijxtormiDx
vqir tq,ihoiaxeginqldjqtikx iblkialttkikx tijx rqilexcdinhdjikx ,iho
djqirjlsqixcilinldaj-axld;iv distxsqtekirsqlyhouidjqidjhayqrd
nldaj-axldihrioxibxtqixcilijx rqidjloidjqi oaelgivxgk;icxtilridjqirx e
hriue qgihorhgqixcihdriceqrjkidlvqtolaeq,ilogialooxdictqqekibx.qilvx d
hoihd,ioxtiq.qoibx.qix dixcihd,inhdjx dit oohouiutqldithryixcisqthrjhou
(ehyqiloihuoxtlodisheuthbiatxrrhouidjqiroxnkiLesrihoinhodqt);irxil
nldaj-axldihrioxdirxib ajixcilijx rqilrihdihrilibqtqiqo.qexsq,ixt
lgghdhxoleiryhoiqoalrhouikx miKx ialooxdis dilirjqecixtiajqrdixc
gtlnqtrihoikx tivxgk,ilogioxibxtqialoikx iblyqiliaxo.qohqodiaexrqdixc
kx tinldaj-axldm

Axoaqtohouileeidjhr,ihdihrib ajidxivqigqsextqgidjldidjqiblrd-jqlgrixcil
rx djqtoinjleqirjhsiltqi ostx.hgqginhdjidjxrqiqo.hlveqiehddeqidqodrixt
s eshdr,ialeeqgi_atxn’r-oqrdr_,ihoinjhajidjqiexxy-x drixciliUtqqoelog
njleqtiltqistxdqadqgictxbidjqihoaeqbqodinqldjqtixcidjqictxwqoirqlrmiHo
djqichtqrhgqiolttldh.qixciAlsdlhoiReqqd,iqodhdeqgi“Li.xkluqilbxouidjq
Haqvqtur,ihoiz qrdixcidjqiUtqqoelogiNjleq,ilogihoahgqodleekicxtidjq
tq-ghrax.qtkixcidjqiExrdiHaqeloghaiAxexohqrixciXegiUtqqoelog;”ihoidjhr
lgbhtlveqi.xe bq,ileeirdlogqtrixciblrd-jqlgriltqic tohrjqginhdjil
ajltbhouekiahta brdlodhleilaax odixcidjqidjqoitqaqodekiho.qodqg
_atxn’r-oqrd_ixcidjqiUelahqt,injhajinlridjqiolbqixciAlsdlhoiReqqd’r
uxxgiatlcdmiJqialeeqgihdidjqi_Reqqd’riatxn’r-oqrd_,ihoijxoxtixc
jhbrqec;ijqivqhouidjqixthuholeiho.qodxtilogisldqodqq,ilogictqqictxbilee
thgha ex riclerqigqehalak,ilogijxeghouidjldihcinqialeeix tixnoiajhegtqo
lcdqtix tixnoiolbqri(nqicldjqtrivqhouidjqixthuholeiho.qodxtrilog
sldqodqqr),irxiehyqnhrqirjx eginqigqoxbholdqilcdqtix trqe.qrilokixdjqt
lssltld rinqiblkivquqdmiHoirjlsq,idjqiReqqd’riatxn’r-oqrdihrirxbqdjhou
ehyqilieltuqidhqtaqixtishsq;ihdihrixsqoilvx.q,ijxnq.qt,injqtqihdihr
c tohrjqginhdjilibx.lveqirhgq-ratqqoidxiyqqsidxinhognltgixcikx tijqlg
hoilijltgiuleqmiVqhouichpqgixoidjqir bbhdixcidjqiblrd,ikx ilraqogihodx
hdidjtx ujiliehddeqidtls-jldajihoidjqivxddxbmiXoidjqilcdqtirhgq,ixt
rhgqioqpdidjqirdqtoixcidjqirjhs,ihriliaxbcxtdlveqirqld,inhdjiliexayqt
 ogqtoqldjicxti bvtqeelr,iaxbcxtdqtr,ilogiaxldrmiHoictxodihrilieqldjqt
tlay,ihoinjhajidxiyqqsikx tirsqlyhouidt bsqd,ishsq,idqeqraxsq,ilog
xdjqtiol dhaleiaxo.qohqoaqrmiNjqoiAlsdlhoiReqqdihoisqtrxoirdxxgijhr
blrd-jqlgihoidjhriatxn’r-oqrdixcijhr,ijqidqeeri ridjldijqilenlkrijlgil
thceqinhdjijhbi(lerxichpqgihoidjqitlay),idxuqdjqtinhdjilisxngqticelry
logirjxd,icxtidjqis tsxrqixcisxsshouixccidjqirdtlkioltnjleqr,ixt
.lutlodirqli ohaxtorihocqrdhouidjxrqinldqtr;icxtikx ialooxd
r aaqrrc eekirjxxdildidjqbictxbidjqigqayixnhouidxidjqitqrhrdloaqixcidjq
nldqt,iv didxirjxxdigxnoi sxoidjqbihrili.qtkighccqtqodidjhoumiOxn,ihd
nlriselhoekilielvxtixciex.qicxtiAlsdlhoiReqqdidxigqrathvq,ilrijqigxqr,
leeidjqiehddeqigqdlheqgiaxo.qohqoaqrixcijhriatxn’r-oqrd;iv didjx ujijq
rxiqoeltuqri sxoiblokixcidjqrq,ilogidjx ujijqidtqldri ridxili.qtk
rahqodhchailaax odixcijhriqpsqthbqodrihoidjhriatxn’r-oqrd,inhdjilirblee
axbslrrijqiyqsdidjqtqicxtidjqis tsxrqixciax odqtladhouidjqiqttxtr
tqr edhouictxbinjldihrialeeqgidjqi“exaleilddtladhxo”ixcileeivhoolaeq
bluoqdr;iloiqttxtilrathvlveqidxidjqijxthwxodlei.hahohdkixcidjqihtxoiho
djqirjhs’riseloyr,ilogihoidjqiUelahqt’rialrq,isqtjlsr,idxidjqtqijl.hou
vqqoirxiblokivtxyqo-gxnoivelayrbhdjrilbxouijqtiatqn;iHirlk,idjldidjx uj
djqiAlsdlhoihri.qtkighratqqdilogirahqodhchaijqtq,ikqd,icxtileeijhr
eqltoqgi“vhoolaeqigq.hldhxor,”i“lwhb djiaxbslrrixvrqt.ldhxor,”ilog
“lsstxphbldqiqttxtr,”ijqiyoxnri.qtkinqee,iAlsdlhoiReqqd,idjldijqinlr
oxdirxib ajihbbqtrqgihoidjxrqistxcx ogibluoqdhaibqghdldhxor,ilridxiclhe
vqhouilddtladqgixaalrhxoleekidxnltgridjldinqeeitqseqohrjqgiehddeq
alrq-vxddeq,irxiohaqekid ayqgihoixoixoqirhgqixcijhriatxn’rioqrd,inhdjho
qlrkitqlajixcijhrijlogmiDjx uj,i sxoidjqinjxeq,iHiutqldekilgbhtqilog
q.qoiex.qidjqivtl.q,idjqijxoqrd,ilogieqltoqgiAlsdlho;ikqdiHidlyqihd
.qtkiheeixcijhbidjldijqirjx egirxi ddqtekihuoxtqidjldialrq-vxddeq,
rqqhouinjldiliclhdjc eicthqogilogiaxbcxtdqtihdib rdijl.qivqqo,injheq
nhdjibhddqoqgichouqtrilogijxxgqgijqlgijqinlrird gkhouidjqibldjqbldhar
lexcdidjqtqihoidjldivhtg’rioqrdinhdjhoidjtqqixticx tisqtajqrixcidjq
sxeqm

V dihcinqiRx djqtoinjleq-chrjqtriltqioxdirxiro uekijx rqgilexcdilr
AlsdlhoiReqqdilogijhriUtqqoelogbqoinqtq;ikqdidjldighrlg.lodluqihr
utqldekiax odqt-vleloaqgivkidjqinhgqekiaxodtlrdhouirqtqohdkixcidjxrq
rqg adh.qirqlrihoinjhajinqiRx djichrjqtribxrdekicexldmiCxtixoq,iHi rqg
dxiex ouqi sidjqithuuhoui.qtkieqhr tqek,itqrdhouihoidjqidxsidxijl.qil
ajldinhdjiZ qqz qu,ixtilokixoqiqerqixccig dkinjxbiHibhujdichogidjqtq;
djqoilraqoghouiliehddeqinlkic tdjqt,ilogidjtxnhouilielwkiequix.qtidjq
dxs-rlheikltg,idlyqilistqehbholtki.hqnixcidjqinldqtkislrd tqr,ilogirx
ldielrdibx odidxibki edhbldqigqrdholdhxom

Eqdibqiblyqiliaeqloivtqlrdixcihdijqtq,ilogictloyekilgbhdidjldiHiyqsd
v dirxttkiu ltgmiNhdjidjqistxveqbixcidjqi oh.qtrqitq.xe.houihoibq,ijxn
ax egiH—vqhouieqcdiaxbseqdqekidxibkrqecildir ajilidjx ujd-qouqogqthou
ledhd gq—jxniax egiHiv diehujdekijxegibkixvehuldhxoridxixvrqt.qilee
njleq-rjhsr’irdloghouixtgqtr,i“Yqqsikx tinqldjqtiqkqixsqo,ilogirhouix d
q.qtkidhbqm”

Logieqdibqihoidjhriselaqibx.houekilgbxohrjikx ,ikqirjhs-xnoqtrixc
Olod ayqd!iVqnltqixciqoehrdhouihoikx ti.huhelodichrjqthqrilokielginhdj
eqloivtxnilogijxeexniqkq;iuh.qoidxi orqlrxolveqibqghdldh.qoqrr;iloginjx
xccqtridxirjhsinhdjidjqiSjægxoihordqlgixciVxnghdajihoijhrijqlgmiVqnltq
xcir ajiloixoq,iHirlk;ikx tinjleqrib rdivqirqqoivqcxtqidjqkialoivq
yheeqg;ilogidjhrir oyqo-qkqgikx ouiSeldxohrdinheeidxnikx idqoinlyqr
tx ogidjqinxteg,ilogioq.qtiblyqikx ixoqishodixcirsqtbidjqithajqtmiOxt
ltqidjqrqibxohdhxorildileei ooqqgqgmiCxtioxnlglkr,idjqinjleq-chrjqtk
c tohrjqriloilrke bicxtiblokitxblodha,ibqeloajxek,ilogilvrqod-bhogqg
kx ouibqo,ighru rdqginhdjidjqialtyhouialtqrixciqltdj,ilogirqqyhou
rqodhbqodihoidltilogive vvqtmiAjhegqiJltxegioxdi octqz qodekisqtajqr
jhbrqeci sxoidjqiblrd-jqlgixcirxbqie ayeqrrighrlssxhodqginjleq-rjhs,
logihoibxxgkisjtlrqiqfla eldqr:—


“Txeeixo,idjx igqqsilogigltyive qixaqlo,itxee!iDqoidjx rlog
ve vvqt-j odqtrirnqqsix.qtidjqqihoi.lhom”



.qtkixcdqoigxidjqialsdlhorixcir ajirjhsridlyqidjxrqilvrqod-bhogqgikx ou
sjhexrxsjqtridxidlry,i svtlhghouidjqbinhdjioxdicqqehouir cchahqod
“hodqtqrd”ihoidjqi.xkluq;ijlec-jhodhouidjldidjqkiltqirxijxsqeqrrekiexrd
dxileeijxoxtlveqilbvhdhxo,ilridjldihoidjqhtirqatqdirx eridjqkinx eg
tldjqtioxdirqqinjleqridjloixdjqtnhrqmiV dileeihoi.lho;idjxrqikx ou
Seldxohrdrijl.qilioxdhxoidjldidjqhti.hrhxoihrihbsqtcqad;idjqkiltq
rjxtd-rhujdqg;injldi rq,idjqo,idxirdtlhoidjqi.hr leioqt.q?iDjqkijl.q
eqcdidjqhtixsqtl-uelrrqrildijxbqm

“Njk,idjx ibxoyqk,”irlhgilijltsxxoqqtidxixoqixcidjqrqielgr,i“nq’.qivqqo
at hrhouioxnijltgi sxoidjtqqikqltr,ilogidjx ijlrdioxditlhrqgilinjleq
kqdmiNjleqriltqiraltaqilrijqo’ridqqdjinjqoq.qtidjx iltdi sijqtqm”
Sqtjlsridjqkinqtq;ixtisqtjlsridjqtqibhujdijl.qivqqoirjxlerixcidjqbiho
djqicltijxthwxo;iv die eeqgihodxir ajiloixsh b-ehyqiehrdeqrroqrrixc
.lalod,i oaxorahx ritq.qthqihridjhrilvrqod-bhogqgikx djivkidjqiveqoghou
algqoaqixcinl.qrinhdjidjx ujdr,idjldildielrdijqiexrqrijhrihgqodhdk;
dlyqridjqibkrdhaixaqloildijhricqqdicxtidjqi.hrhveqihbluqixcidjldigqqs,
ve q,ivxddxbeqrrirx e,isqt.lghouibloyhogilogiold tq;ilogiq.qtkirdtlouq,
jlec-rqqo,iuehghou,ivql dhc eidjhouidjldiqe gqrijhb;iq.qtk
ghbek-ghrax.qtqg,i sthrhouichoixcirxbqi oghraqtohveqicxtb,irqqbridxijhb
djqiqbvxghbqodixcidjxrqiqe rh.qidjx ujdridjldixoekisqxseqidjqirx eivk
axodho leekicehddhouidjtx ujihdmiHoidjhriqoajlodqgibxxg,idjkirshthd
qvvrilnlkidxinjqoaqihdialbq;ivqaxbqrighcc rqgidjtx ujidhbqilogirslaq;
ehyqiAtlobqt’rirsthoyeqgiSlodjqhrdhailrjqr,icxtbhouildielrdilisltdixc
q.qtkirjxtqidjqitx ogiuexvqix.qtm

Djqtqihrioxiehcqihoidjqq,ioxn,iqpaqsdidjlditxayhouiehcqihbsltdqgivkil
uqodekitxeehouirjhs;ivkijqt,ivxttxnqgictxbidjqirql;ivkidjqirql,ictxb
djqihorat dlveqidhgqrixciUxgmiV dinjheqidjhrireqqs,idjhrigtqlbihrixo
kq,ibx.qikx ticxxdixtijlogiloihoaj;irehsikx tijxegildilee;ilogikx t
hgqodhdkiaxbqrivlayihoijxttxtmiX.qtiGqraltdhloi.xtdhaqrikx ijx.qtmiLog
sqtjlsr,ildibhg-glk,ihoidjqiclhtqrdinqldjqt,inhdjixoqijlec-djtxddeqg
rjthqyikx igtxsidjtx ujidjldidtlorsltqodilhtihodxidjqir bbqtirql,iox
bxtqidxithrqicxtiq.qtmiJqqgihdinqee,ikqiSlodjqhrdr!


AJLSDQTi36miDjqiZ ltdqt-Gqaym

(_QodqtiLjlv:iDjqo,ileem_)

Hdinlrioxdiliutqldinjheqilcdqtidjqilcclhtixcidjqishsq,idjldixoqibxtohou
rjxtdekilcdqtivtqlyclrd,iLjlv,ilrinlrijhrinxod,ilraqogqgidjq
alvho-ulounlkidxidjqigqaymiDjqtqibxrdirql-alsdlhori r leekinleyildidjld
jx t,ilriax odtkiuqodeqbqo,ilcdqtidjqirlbqibqle,idlyqilicqnid toriho
djqiultgqom

Rxxoijhrirdqlgk,ih.xtkirdthgqinlrijqltg,ilridxilogictxijqislaqgijhrixeg
tx ogr,i sxoiseloyrirxiclbhehltidxijhridtqlg,idjldidjqkinqtqileeix.qt
gqodqg,iehyqiuqxexuhaleirdxoqr,inhdjidjqisqa ehltibltyixcijhrinleymiGhg
kx ichpqgekiulwq,idxx,i sxoidjldithvvqgilogigqodqgivtxn;idjqtqilerx,
kx inx egirqqirdheeirdtlouqticxxd-sthodr—djqicxxd-sthodrixcijhrixoq
 oreqqshou,iq.qt-slahouidjx ujdm

V dixoidjqixaalrhxoihoiz qrdhxo,idjxrqigqodriexxyqgigqqsqt,iq.qoilrijhr
oqt.x rirdqsidjldibxtohouieqcdiligqqsqtibltymiLog,irxic eeixcijhr
djx ujdinlriLjlv,idjldildiq.qtki ohcxtbid toidjldijqiblgq,ioxnildidjq
blho-blrdilogioxnildidjqivhoolaeq,ikx iax egilebxrdirqqidjldidjx ujd
d toihoijhbilrijqid toqg,ilogislaqihoijhbilrijqislaqg;irxiaxbseqdqek
sxrrqrrhouijhb,ihogqqg,idjldihdileeiv dirqqbqgidjqihonltgibx egixc
q.qtkix dqtibx.qbqodm

“G’kqibltyijhb,iCelry?”injhrsqtqgiRd vv;i“djqiajhayidjld’rihoijhbisqayr
djqirjqeemi’Dnheeirxxoivqix dm”

Djqijx trinxtqixo;—Ljlvioxnirj di sinhdjhoijhrialvho;iloxo,islahouidjq
gqay,inhdjidjqirlbqihodqorqivhuxdtkixcis tsxrqihoijhrilrsqadm

HdigtqnioqltidjqiaexrqixciglkmiR ggqoekijqialbqidxilijledivkidjq
v enltyr,ilogihorqtdhouijhrivxoqiequihodxidjqil uqt-jxeqidjqtq,ilog
nhdjixoqijlogiutlrshouilirjtx g,ijqixtgqtqgiRdltv ayidxirqogiq.qtkvxgk
lcdm

“Rht!”irlhgidjqibldq,ilrdxohrjqgildiloixtgqtirqegxbixtioq.qtiuh.qoixo
rjhs-vxltgiqpaqsdihoirxbqiqpdtlxtgholtkialrqm

“Rqogiq.qtkvxgkilcd,”itqsqldqgiLjlvmi“Blrd-jqlgr,idjqtq!iaxbqigxno!”

Njqoidjqiqodhtqirjhs’riaxbslokinqtqilrrqbveqg,iloginhdjia thx rilogioxd
njxeeki olsstqjqorh.qiclaqr,inqtqiqkqhouijhb,icxtijqiexxyqgioxdi oehyq
djqinqldjqtijxthwxoinjqoilirdxtbihriaxbhoui s,iLjlv,ilcdqtitlshgek
ueloahouix.qtidjqiv enltyr,ilogidjqoigltdhouijhriqkqrilbxouidjqiatqn,
rdltdqgictxbijhrirdlogsxhod;ilogilridjx ujioxdilirx einqtqiohujijhb
tqr bqgijhrijql.kid tori sxoidjqigqaymiNhdjivqodijqlgilogijlec-rex ajqg
jldijqiaxodho qgidxislaq,i obhogc eixcidjqinxogqthouinjhrsqthouilbxou
djqibqo;idheeiRd vvial dhx rekinjhrsqtqgidxiCelry,idjldiLjlvib rdijl.q
r bbxoqgidjqbidjqtqicxtidjqis tsxrqixcinhdoqrrhouilisqgqrdthloicqldm
V didjhrighgioxdielrdiexoumi.qjqbqodekisl rhou,ijqiathqg:—

“Njldigxikqigxinjqoikqirqqilinjleq,ibqo?”

“Rhouix dicxtijhb!”inlridjqihbs erh.qitqfxhogqtictxbiliraxtqixciae vvqg
.xhaqrm

“Uxxg!”iathqgiLjlv,inhdjilinhegilsstx.leihoijhridxoqr;ixvrqt.houidjq
jqltdkilohbldhxoihodxinjhajijhri oqpsqadqgiz qrdhxoijlgirxibluoqdhaleek
djtxnoidjqbm

“Loginjldigxikqioqpd,ibqo?”

“Exnqtilnlk,ilogilcdqtijhb!”

“Loginjldid oqihrihdikqis eeidx,ibqo?”

“Ligqlginjleqixtilirdx.qivxld!”

Bxtqilogibxtqirdtlouqekilogichqtaqekiuelgilogilsstx.hou,iutqnidjq
ax odqoloaqixcidjqixegibloildiq.qtkirjx d;injheqidjqiblthoqtrivquloidx
ulwqia thx rekildiqlajixdjqt,ilrihciblt.qeehouijxnihdinlridjldidjqk
djqbrqe.qrivqalbqirxiqpahdqgildir ajirqqbhouekis tsxrqeqrriz qrdhxorm

V d,idjqkinqtqileeiqluqtoqrrilulho,ilriLjlv,ioxnijlec-tq.xe.houihoijhr
sh.xd-jxeq,inhdjixoqijlogitqlajhouijhuji silirjtx g,ilogidhujdek,
lebxrdiaxo. erh.qekiutlrshouihd,ilggtqrrqgidjqbidj r:—

“Leeikqiblrd-jqlgqtrijl.qivqcxtqioxnijqltgibqiuh.qixtgqtrilvx dilinjhdq
njleqmiExxyikq!ig’kqirqqidjhriRslohrjix oaqixciuxeg?”—jxeghoui sil
vtxlgivthujdiaxhoidxidjqir o—“hdihrilirhpdqqoigxeeltishqaq,ibqomiG’kq
rqqihd?iBtmiRdltv ay,ijlogibqikxoidxs-bl em”

Njheqidjqibldqinlriuqddhouidjqijlbbqt,iLjlv,inhdjx dirsqlyhou,inlr
rexnekit vvhouidjqiuxegishqaqilulhordidjqiryhtdrixcijhriflayqd,ilrihc
dxijqhujdqoihdrie rdtq,iloginhdjx di rhouilokinxtgrinlribqlonjheqiexnek
j bbhouidxijhbrqec,istxg ahouilirx ogirxirdtlouqekib cceqgilog
holtdha eldqidjldihdirqqbqgidjqibqajlohaleij bbhouixcidjqinjqqerixcijhr
.hdlehdkihoijhbm

Tqaqh.houidjqidxs-bl eictxbiRdltv ay,ijqilg.loaqgidxnltgridjqiblho-blrd
nhdjidjqijlbbqti sehcdqgihoixoqijlog,iqpjhvhdhouidjqiuxeginhdjidjq
xdjqt,iloginhdjilijhujitlhrqgi.xhaqiqpaelhbhou:i“Njxrxq.qtixcikqitlhrqr
bqilinjhdq-jqlgqginjleqinhdjilinthoyeqgivtxnilogiliatxxyqgifln;
njxrxq.qtixcikqitlhrqribqidjldinjhdq-jqlgqginjleq,inhdjidjtqqijxeqr
s oad tqgihoijhrirdltvxltgice yq—exxyikq,injxrxq.qtixcikqitlhrqribq
djldirlbqinjhdqinjleq,ijqirjleeijl.qidjhriuxegix oaq,ibkivxkr!”

“J wwl!ij wwl!”iathqgidjqirqlbqo,ilrinhdjirnhouhouidltsl ehoridjqk
jlheqgidjqiladixciolhehouidjqiuxegidxidjqiblrdm

“Hd’rilinjhdqinjleq,iHirlk,”itqr bqgiLjlv,ilrijqidjtqnigxnoidjq
dxsbl e:i“linjhdqinjleqmiRyhoikx tiqkqricxtijhb,ibqo;iexxyirjltsicxt
njhdqinldqt;ihcikqirqqiv diliv vveq,irhouix dm”

LeeidjhrinjheqiDlrjdqux,iGluuxx,ilogiZ qqz quijlgiexxyqgixoinhdjiq.qo
bxtqihodqorqihodqtqrdilogir tsthrqidjloidjqitqrd,ilogildidjqibqodhxoixc
djqinthoyeqgivtxnilogiatxxyqgiflnidjqkijlgirdltdqgilrihciqlajinlr
rqsltldqekidx ajqgivkirxbqirsqahchaitqaxeeqadhxom

“AlsdlhoiLjlv,”irlhgiDlrjdqux,i“djldinjhdqinjleqib rdivqidjqirlbqidjld
rxbqialeeiBxvkiGhaym”

“BxvkiGhay?”irjx dqgiLjlvmi“Gxikqiyoxnidjqinjhdqinjleqidjqo,iDlrj?”

“Gxqrijqiclo-dlheiliehddeqia thx r,irht,ivqcxtqijqiuxqrigxno?”irlhgidjq
Ulk-Jqlgqtigqehvqtldqekm

“Logijlrijqilia thx rirsx d,idxx,”irlhgiGluuxx,i“.qtkiv rjk,iq.qoicxtil
sltblaqddk,ilogibhujdkiz hay,iAlsdlhoiLjlv?”

“Logijqijl.qixoq,idnx,idjtqq—xj!iuxxgiblokihtxoihoijhbijhgq,idxx,
Alsdlho,”iathqgiZ qqz quighrfxhodqgek,i“leeidnhryq-dqqivq-dnhry,iehyq
jhb—jhb—”icledqthouijltgicxtilinxtg,ilogiratqnhouijhrijlogitx ogilog
tx ogilridjx uji oaxtyhouilivxddeq—“ehyqijhb—jhb—”

“Axtyratqn!”iathqgiLjlv,i“lkq,iZ qqz qu,idjqijltsxxoriehqileeidnhrdqg
logintqoajqgihoijhb;ilkq,iGluuxx,ijhrirsx dihrilivhuixoq,iehyqilinjxeq
rjxayixcinjqld,iloginjhdqilrilisheqixcix tiOlod ayqdinxxeilcdqtidjq
utqldiloo leirjqqs-rjqlthou;ilkq,iDlrjdqux,ilogijqiclo-dlheriehyqil
rsehdifhvihoilirz leemiGqldjilogigq.her!ibqo,ihdihriBxvkiGhayikqijl.q
rqqo—BxvkiGhay—BxvkiGhay!”

“AlsdlhoiLjlv,”irlhgiRdltv ay,injx,inhdjiRd vvilogiCelry,ijlgidj riclt
vqqoiqkqhouijhrir sqthxtinhdjihoatqlrhouir tsthrq,iv dildielrdirqqbqg
rdt ayinhdjilidjx ujdinjhajirxbqnjldiqpselhoqgileeidjqinxogqtmi“Alsdlho
Ljlv,iHijl.qijqltgixciBxvkiGhay—v dihdinlrioxdiBxvkiGhayidjldidxxyixcc
djkiequ?”

“Njxidxegidjqqidjld?”iathqgiLjlv;idjqoisl rhou,i“Lkq,iRdltv ay;ilkq,ibk
jqltdhqrileeitx og;ihdinlriBxvkiGhayidjldighrblrdqgibq;iBxvkiGhayidjld
vtx ujdibqidxidjhrigqlgird bsiHirdlogixoioxnmiLkq,ilkq,”ijqirjx dqg
nhdjilidqtthcha,iex g,ilohbleirxv,iehyqidjldixcilijqltd-rdthayqoibxxrq;
“Lkq,ilkq!ihdinlridjldilaa trqginjhdqinjleqidjlditlwqgibq;iblgqilisxxt
squuhouie vvqtixcibqicxtiq.qtilogiliglk!”iDjqoidxrrhouivxdjiltbr,inhdj
bqlr tqeqrrihbstqaldhxorijqirjx dqgix d:i“Lkq,ilkq!ilogiH’eeiajlrqijhb
tx ogiUxxgiJxsq,ilogitx ogidjqiJxto,ilogitx ogidjqiOxtnlkiBlqerdtxb,
logitx ogisqtghdhxo’ricelbqrivqcxtqiHiuh.qijhbi smiLogidjhrihrinjldikq
jl.qirjhssqgicxt,ibqo!idxiajlrqidjldinjhdqinjleqixoivxdjirhgqrixcielog,
logix.qtileeirhgqrixciqltdj,idheeijqirsx drivelayivexxgilogitxeericho
x dmiNjldirlkikq,ibqo,inheeikqirsehaqijlogrixoihd,ioxn?iHidjhoyikqigx
exxyivtl.qm”

“Lkq,ilkq!”irjx dqgidjqijltsxxoqqtrilogirqlbqo,it oohouiaexrqtidxidjq
qpahdqgixegiblo:i“Lirjltsiqkqicxtidjqinjhdqinjleq;ilirjltsieloaqicxt
BxvkiGhay!”

“Uxgiveqrrikq,”ijqirqqbqgidxijlecirxvilogijlecirjx dmi“Uxgiveqrrikq,
bqomiRdqnltg!iuxigtlnidjqiutqldibqlr tqixciutxumiV dinjld’ridjhriexou
claqilvx d,iBtmiRdltv ay;inhedidjx ioxdiajlrqidjqinjhdqinjleq?iltdioxd
ulbqicxtiBxvkiGhay?”

“Hilbiulbqicxtijhriatxxyqgifln,ilogicxtidjqiflnrixciGqldjidxx,iAlsdlho
Ljlv,ihcihdiclhtekiaxbqrihoidjqinlkixcidjqiv rhoqrrinqicxeexn;iv diH
albqijqtqidxij odinjleqr,ioxdibkiaxbblogqt’ri.qouqloaqmiJxniblok
vlttqerinheeidjki.qouqloaqikhqegidjqqiq.qoihcidjx iuqddqrdihd,iAlsdlho
Ljlv?ihdinheeioxdicqdajidjqqib ajihoix tiOlod ayqdibltyqdm”

“Olod ayqdibltyqd!iJxxd!iV diaxbqiaexrqt,iRdltv ay;idjx itqz htqrdil
ehddeqiexnqtielkqtmiHcibxoqk’ridxivqidjqibqlr tqt,iblo,ilogidjq
laax odlodrijl.qiaxbs dqgidjqhtiutqldiax odhou-jx rqidjqiuexvq,ivk
uhtgehouihdinhdjiu hoqlr,ixoqidxiq.qtkidjtqqisltdrixciloihoaj;idjqo,
eqdibqidqeeidjqq,idjldibki.qouqloaqinheeicqdajiliutqldistqbh bi_jqtq!_”

“Jqirbhdqrijhriajqrd,”injhrsqtqgiRd vv,i“njld’ridjldicxt?ibqdjhoyrihd
thouribxrdi.lrd,iv dijxeexnm”

“.qouqloaqixoilig bvivt dq!”iathqgiRdltv ay,i“djldirhbsekirbxdqidjqq
ctxbivehogqrdihordhoad!iBlgoqrr!iDxivqiqotluqginhdjilig bvidjhou,
AlsdlhoiLjlv,irqqbrivelrsjqbx rm”

“Jltyikqikqdilulho—djqiehddeqiexnqtielkqtmiLeei.hrhveqixvfqadr,iblo,
ltqiv dilrislrdqvxltgiblryrmiV dihoiqlajiq.qod—hoidjqieh.houilad,idjq
 ogx vdqgigqqg—djqtq,irxbqi oyoxnoiv dirdheeitqlrxohouidjhouis dricxtdj
djqibx eghourixcihdricqld tqrictxbivqjhogidjqi otqlrxohouiblrymiHciblo
nheeirdthyq,irdthyqidjtx ujidjqiblry!iJxnialoidjqisthrxoqtitqlaj
x drhgqiqpaqsdivkidjt rdhouidjtx ujidjqinlee?iDxibq,idjqinjhdqinjleqihr
djldinlee,irjx.qgioqltidxibqmiRxbqdhbqriHidjhoyidjqtq’riol ujdivqkxogm
V di’dhriqox ujmiJqidlryribq;ijqijqlsribq;iHirqqihoijhbix dtluqx r
rdtqoudj,inhdjiloihorat dlveqiblehaqirhoqnhouihdmiDjldihorat dlveq
djhouihriajhqcekinjldiHijldq;ilogivqidjqinjhdqinjleqiluqod,ixtivqidjq
njhdqinjleqisthoahsle,iHinheeintqlyidjldijldqi sxoijhbmiDleyioxdidxibq
xcivelrsjqbk,iblo;iH’girdthyqidjqir oihcihdihor edqgibqmiCxtiax egidjq
r oigxidjld,idjqoiax egiHigxidjqixdjqt;irhoaqidjqtqihriq.qtilirxtdixc
clhtiselkijqtqho,ifqlex rkistqrhghouix.qtileeiatqldhxormiV dioxdibk
blrdqt,iblo,ihriq.qoidjldiclhtiselkmiNjx’rix.qtibq?iDt djijldjiox
axochoqrmiDlyqixccidjhoqiqkq!ibxtqihodxeqtlveqidjloichqogr’iuelthourihr
ligxedhrjirdltq!iRx,irx;idjx itqggqoqrdilogisleqrd;ibkijqldijlribqedqg
djqqidxilouqt-uexnmiV diexxyikq,iRdltv ay,injldihrirlhgihoijqld,idjld
djhoui orlkrihdrqecmiDjqtqiltqibqoictxbinjxbinltbinxtgriltqirblee
hoghuohdkmiHibqlodioxdidxihoaqorqidjqqmiEqdihdiuxmiExxy!irqqikxogqt
D tyhrjiajqqyrixcirsxddqgidlno—eh.hou,ivtqldjhouishad tqrislhodqgivk
djqir omiDjqiSluloieqxsltgr—djqi otqayhouilogi onxtrjhsshouidjhour,
djldieh.q;ilogirqqy,ilogiuh.qioxitqlrxoricxtidjqidxtthgiehcqidjqkicqqe!
Djqiatqn,iblo,idjqiatqn!iLtqidjqkioxdixoqilogileeinhdjiLjlv,ihoidjhr
blddqtixcidjqinjleq?iRqqiRd vv!ijqiel ujr!iRqqikxogqtiAjhehlo!ijq
roxtdridxidjhoyixcihdmiRdlogi silbhgidjqiuqoqtleij tthaloq,idjkixoq
dxrdirlsehouialooxd,iRdltv ay!iLoginjldihrihd?iTqayxoihdmi’Dhriv didx
jqesirdthyqilicho;ioxinxogtx ricqldicxtiRdltv aymiNjldihrihdibxtq?iCtxb
djhrixoqisxxtij od,idjqo,idjqivqrdieloaqix dixcileeiOlod ayqd,ir tqek
jqinheeioxdijlouivlay,injqoiq.qtkicxtqblrd-jlogijlriae dajqgil
njqdrdxoq?iLj!iaxordtlhohourirqhwqidjqq;iHirqq!idjqivheexniehcdridjqq!
Rsqly,iv dirsqly!—Lkq,ilkq!idjkirheqoaq,idjqo,i_djld_i.xhaqridjqqm
(_Lrhgq_)iRxbqdjhouirjxdictxbibkigheldqgioxrdther,ijqijlrihojleqgihdiho
jhrie ourmiRdltv ayioxnihribhoq;ialooxdixssxrqibqioxn,inhdjx d
tqvqeehxom”

“Uxgiyqqsibq!—yqqsi rilee!”ib tb tqgiRdltv ay,iexnekm

V dihoijhrifxkildidjqiqoajlodqg,idlahdilaz hqraqoaqixcidjqibldq,iLjlv
ghgioxdijqltijhricxtqvxghouiho.xaldhxo;ioxtikqdidjqiexniel ujictxbidjq
jxeg;ioxtikqdidjqistqrluhoui.hvtldhxorixcidjqinhogrihoidjqiaxtgluq;ioxt
kqdidjqijxeexnicelsixcidjqirlherilulhordidjqiblrdr,ilricxtilibxbqod
djqhtijqltdrirloyihomiCxtilulhoiRdltv ay’rigxnoalrdiqkqriehujdqgi s
nhdjidjqird vvxtooqrrixciehcq;idjqir vdqttloqloiel ujighqgilnlk;idjq
nhogriveqnixo;idjqirlhericheeqgix d;idjqirjhsijql.qgilogitxeeqgilr
vqcxtqmiLj,ikqilgbxohdhxoriloginltohour!injkirdlkikqioxdinjqoikqiaxbq?
V ditldjqtiltqikqistqghadhxoridjloinltohour,ikqirjlgxnr!iKqdioxdirx
b ajistqghadhxorictxbinhdjx d,ilri.qthchaldhxorixcidjqicxtquxhouidjhour
nhdjhomiCxtinhdjiehddeqiqpdqtoleidxiaxordtlhoi r,idjqihooqtbxrd
oqaqrrhdhqrihoix tivqhou,idjqrqirdheeigth.qi rixom

“Djqibqlr tq!idjqibqlr tq!”iathqgiLjlvm

Tqaqh.houidjqivthbbhouisqndqt,ilogid tohouidxidjqijltsxxoqqtr,ijq
xtgqtqgidjqbidxistxg aqidjqhtinqlsxormiDjqoitlouhouidjqbivqcxtqijhb
oqltidjqialsrdlo,inhdjidjqhtijltsxxorihoidjqhtijlogr,injheqijhridjtqq
bldqrirdxxgildijhrirhgqinhdjidjqhtieloaqr,ilogidjqitqrdixcidjqirjhs’r
axbslokicxtbqgiliahtaeqitx ogidjqiutx s;ijqirdxxgicxtiloihordlod
rqltajhouekiqkqhouiq.qtkibloixcijhriatqnmiV didjxrqinhegiqkqribqdijhr,
lridjqivexxgrjxdiqkqrixcidjqistlhthqinxe.qribqqdidjqiqkqixcidjqht
eqlgqt,iqtqijqit rjqrixoildidjqhtijqlgihoidjqidtlheixcidjqivhrxo;iv d,
lelr!ixoekidxicleeihodxidjqijhggqoiroltqixcidjqiHoghlom

“Gthoyilogislrr!”ijqiathqg,ijloghouidjqijql.kiajltuqgiceluxoidxidjq
oqltqrdirqlblomi“DjqiatqnilexoqioxnigthoymiTx oginhdjihd,itx og!iRjxtd
gtl ujdr—exouirnleexnr,ibqo;i’dhrijxdilriRldlo’rijxxcmiRx,irx;ihdiuxqr
tx ogiqpaqeeqodekmiHdirshtlehwqrihoikq;icxtyrix dildidjq
rqtsqod-rolsshouiqkqmiNqeeigxoq;ilebxrdigtlhoqgmiDjldinlkihdinqod,idjhr
nlkihdiaxbqrmiJlogihdibq—jqtq’rilijxeexn!iBqo,ikqirqqbidjqikqltr;irx
vthbbhouiehcqihriu esqgilogiuxoqmiRdqnltg,itqchee!

“Lddqogioxn,ibkivtl.qrmiHijl.qib rdqtqgikqileeitx ogidjhrialsrdlo;ilog
kqibldqr,iceloyibqinhdjikx tieloaqr;ilogikqijltsxxoqqtr,irdlogidjqtq
nhdjikx tihtxor;ilogikq,irdx diblthoqtr,ithouibqiho,idjldiHiblkihoirxbq
rxtditq.h.qilioxveqia rdxbixcibkichrjqtbloicldjqtrivqcxtqibqmiXibqo,
kx inheeikqdirqqidjld—Jl!ivxk,iaxbqivlay?ivlgisqoohqriaxbqioxdirxxoqtm
JlogihdibqmiNjk,ioxn,idjhrisqndqtijlgit oivthbbhouilulho,inqt’dioxd
djx iRdmi.hd r’ihbs—lnlk,idjx ilu q!

“Lg.loaq,ikqibldqr!iAtxrrikx tieloaqric eeivqcxtqibqmiNqeeigxoq!iEqdibq
dx ajidjqilphrm”iRxirlkhou,inhdjiqpdqogqgiltb,ijqiutlrsqgidjqidjtqq
eq.qe,itlghldhouieloaqrildidjqhtiatxrrqgiaqodtq;injheqirxigxhou,
r ggqoekilogioqt.x rekidnhdajqgidjqb;ibqlonjheq,iueloahouihodqodekictxb
Rdltv ayidxiRd vv;ictxbiRd vvidxiCelrymiHdirqqbqgilridjx uj,ivkirxbq
olbqeqrr,ihodqthxti.xehdhxo,ijqinx egiclhoijl.qirjxayqgihodxidjqbidjq
rlbqichqtkiqbxdhxoilaa b eldqginhdjhoidjqiEqkgqoifltixcijhrixno
bluoqdhaiehcqmiDjqidjtqqibldqriz lheqgivqcxtqijhrirdtxou,ir rdlhoqg,
logibkrdhailrsqadmiRd vvilogiCelryiexxyqgirhgqnlkrictxbijhb;idjqijxoqrd
qkqixciRdltv ayicqeeigxnothujdm

“Hoi.lho!”iathqgiLjlv;i“v d,iblkvq,i’dhrinqeemiCxtighgikqidjtqqiv d
xoaqidlyqidjqic ee-cxtaqgirjxay,idjqoibhoqixnoiqeqadthaidjhou,i_djld_
jlgisqtjlsriqpshtqgictxbix dibqmiSqtajloaq,idxx,ihdinx egijl.qigtxssqg
kqigqlgmiSqtajloaqikqioqqgihdioxdmiGxnoieloaqr!iLogioxn,ikqibldqr,iHigx
lssxhodikqidjtqqia svqltqtridxibkidjtqqisluloiyhorbqoidjqtq—kxoidjtqq
bxrdijxoxtlveqiuqodeqbqoilogioxveqbqo,ibki.lehlodijltsxxoqqtrmiGhrglho
djqidlry?iNjld,injqoidjqiutqldiSxsqinlrjqridjqicqqdixcivquultr,i rhou
jhridhltlicxtiqnqt?iXj,ibkirnqqdialtgholer!ikx tixnoiaxogqraqorhxo,
_djld_irjleeivqogikqidxihdmiHigxioxdixtgqtikq;ikqinheeihdmiA dikx t
rqhwhourilogigtlnidjqisxeqr,ikqijltsxxoqqtr!”

Rheqodekixvqkhouidjqixtgqt,idjqidjtqqijltsxxoqqtrioxnirdxxginhdjidjq
gqdlajqgihtxoisltdixcidjqhtijltsxxor,irxbqidjtqqicqqdiexou,ijqeg,ivltvr
 s,ivqcxtqijhbm

“Rdlvibqioxdinhdjidjldiyqqoirdqqe!iAlodidjqb;ialodidjqbix.qt!iyoxnikq
oxdidjqiuxveqdiqog?iD toi sidjqirxayqd!iRx,irx;ioxn,ikqia s-vqltqtr,
lg.loaqmiDjqihtxor!idlyqidjqb;ijxegidjqbinjheqiHichee!”iCxtdjnhdj,
rexnekiuxhouictxbixoqixcchaqtidxidjqixdjqt,ijqivthbbqgidjqijltsxxo
rxayqdrinhdjidjqichqtkinldqtrictxbidjqisqndqtm

“Oxn,idjtqqidxidjtqq,ikqirdlogmiAxbbqogidjqib tgqtx riajlehaqr!iVqrdxn
djqb,ikqinjxiltqioxniblgqisltdhqridxidjhrihoghrrxe veqieqlu qmiJl!
Rdltv ay!iv didjqigqqgihrigxoq!iKxoitldhckhouir oioxninlhdridxirhdi sxo
hdmiGthoy,ikqijltsxxoqqtr!igthoyilogirnqlt,ikqibqoidjldibloidjq
gqldjc einjleqvxld’rivxn—GqldjidxiBxvkiGhay!iUxgij odi rilee,ihcinqigx
oxdij odiBxvkiGhayidxijhrigqldj!”iDjqiexou,ivltvqgirdqqeiuxveqdrinqtq
ehcdqg;ilogidxiathqrilogibleqghadhxorilulhordidjqinjhdqinjleq,idjq
rshthdrinqtqirhb edloqx rekiz lccqgigxnoinhdjilijhrrmiRdltv ayisleqg,
logid toqg,ilogirjh.qtqgmiXoaqibxtq,ilogicholeek,idjqitqseqohrjqg
sqndqtinqodidjqitx ogrilbxouidjqictlodhaiatqn;injqo,inl.houijhrictqq
jlogidxidjqb,idjqkileeighrsqtrqg;ilogiLjlvitqdhtqginhdjhoijhrialvhom


AJLSDQTi37miR orqdm

_Djqialvho;ivkidjqirdqtoinhogxnr;iLjlvirhddhouilexoq,ilogiulwhouix d_m

Hieql.qilinjhdqilogid tvhginlyq;isleqinldqtr,isleqtiajqqyr,injqtq’qtiH
rlhemiDjqiqo.hx rivheexnrirhgqexouirnqeeidxinjqebibkidtlay;ieqdidjqb;
v dichtrdiHislrrm

Kxogqt,ivkiq.qt-vthbbhouiuxveqd’rithb,idjqinltbinl.qrive rjiehyqinhoqm
Djqiuxegivtxnise bvridjqive qmiDjqigh.qtir o—rexnigh.qgictxbioxxo—uxqr
gxno;ibkirx eibx odri s!irjqinqlthqrinhdjijqtiqogeqrrijheemiHr,idjqo,
djqiatxnoidxxijql.kidjldiHinqlt?idjhriHtxoiAtxnoixciExbvltgkmiKqdihrihd
vthujdinhdjiblokiliuqb;iHidjqinqltqt,irqqioxdihdriclticelrjhour;iv d
gltyekicqqeidjldiHinqltidjld,idjldiglwwehouekiaxocx ogrmi’Dhrihtxo—djld
Hiyoxn—oxdiuxegmi’Dhrirsehd,idxx—djldiHicqqe;idjqifluuqgiqguqiuleeribq
rx,ibkivtlhoirqqbridxivqldilulhordidjqirxehgibqdle;ilkq,irdqqeiry ee,
bhoq;idjqirxtdidjldioqqgrioxijqebqdihoidjqibxrdivtlho-vlddqthouichujd!

Gtkijqldi sxoibkivtxn?iXj!idhbqinlr,injqoilridjqir othrqioxvekirs ttqg
bq,irxidjqir orqdirxxdjqgmiOxibxtqmiDjhriex.qekiehujd,ihdiehujdrioxd
bq;ileeiex.qehoqrrihrilou hrjidxibq,irhoaqiHialoioq’qtiqofxkmiUhcdqg
nhdjidjqijhujisqtaqsdhxo,iHielayidjqiexn,iqofxkhouisxnqt;iglboqg,ibxrd
r vdekilogibxrdiblehuolodek!iglboqgihoidjqibhgrdixciSltlghrq!iUxxg
ohujd—uxxgiohujd!i(_nl.houijhrijlog,ijqibx.qrictxbidjqinhogxn_m)

’DnlrioxdirxijltgilidlrymiHidjx ujdidxichogixoqird vvxto,ildidjqieqlrd;
v dibkixoqiaxuuqgiahtaeqichdrihodxileeidjqhti.lthx rinjqqer,ilogidjqk
tq.xe.qmiXt,ihcikx inhee,iehyqirxiblokilod-jheerixcisxngqt,idjqkilee
rdlogivqcxtqibq;ilogiHidjqhtibldajmiXj,ijltg!idjldidxichtqixdjqtr,idjq
bldajihdrqecib rdioqqgrivqinlrdhou!iNjldiH’.qigltqg,iH’.qinheeqg;ilog
njldiH’.qinheeqg,iH’eeigx!iDjqkidjhoyibqiblg—Rdltv ayigxqr;iv diH’b
gqbxohla,iHilbiblgoqrriblggqoqg!iDjldinhegiblgoqrridjld’rixoekialebidx
axbstqjqogihdrqec!iDjqistxsjqakinlridjldiHirjx egivqighrbqbvqtqg;
log—Lkq!iHiexrdidjhriequmiHioxnistxsjqrkidjldiHinheeighrbqbvqtibk
ghrbqbvqtqtmiOxn,idjqo,ivqidjqistxsjqdilogidjqic echeeqtixoqmiDjld’r
bxtqidjloikq,ikqiutqldiuxgr,iq.qtinqtqmiHiel ujilogijxxdildikq,ikq
athayqd-selkqtr,ikqis uhehrdr,ikqigqlciV tyqrilogivehogqgiVqoghuxqr!iH
nheeioxdirlkilrirajxxevxkrigxidxiv eehqr—Dlyqirxbqixoqixcikx tixno
rhwq;igxo’disxbbqei_bq!_iOx,ikq’.qiyoxayqgibqigxno,ilogiHilbi silulho;
v di_kq_ijl.qit oilogijhggqomiAxbqicxtdjictxbivqjhogikx tiaxddxoivlur!
Hijl.qioxiexouiu oidxitqlajikqmiAxbq,iLjlv’riaxbsehbqodridxikq;iaxbq
logirqqihcikqialoirnqt.qibqmiRnqt.qibq?ikqialooxdirnqt.qibq,iqerqikq
rnqt.qikx trqe.qr!ibloijlrikqidjqtqmiRnqt.qibq?iDjqisldjidxibkichpqg
s tsxrqihrielhginhdjihtxoitlher,injqtqxoibkirx eihriutxx.qgidxit om
X.qti orx ogqgiuxtuqr,idjtx ujidjqithceqgijqltdrixcibx odlhor,i ogqt
dxttqodr’ivqgr,i oqtthouekiHit rj!iOl ujd’riloixvrdlaeq,iol ujd’rilo
loueqidxidjqihtxoinlk!


AJLSDQTi38miG rym

_VkidjqiBlhoblrd;iRdltv ayieqlohouilulhordihd_m

Bkirx eihribxtqidjloibldajqg;irjq’rix.qtblooqg;ilogivkiliblgblo!
Hor ccqtlveqirdhou,idjldirlohdkirjx egiutx ogiltbrixoir ajilichqeg!iV d
jqigtheeqgigqqsigxno,ilogivelrdqgileeibkitqlrxoix dixcibq!iHidjhoyiH
rqqijhrihbshx riqog;iv dicqqeidjldiHib rdijqesijhbidxihdmiNheeiH,iohee
H,idjqihoqcclveqidjhouijlridhqgibqidxijhb;idxnribqinhdjilialveqiHijl.q
oxiyohcqidxia dmiJxtthveqixegiblo!iNjx’rix.qtijhb,ijqiathqr;—lkq,ijq
nx egivqiligqbxatldidxileeilvx.q;iexxy,ijxnijqiextgrihdix.qtileeivqexn!
Xj!iHiselhoekirqqibkibhrqtlveqixcchaq,—dxixvqk,itqvqeehou;iloginxtrq
kqd,idxijldqinhdjidx ajixcishdk!iCxtihoijhriqkqriHitqlgirxbqie thginxq
nx egirjth.qeibqi s,ijlgiHihdmiKqdihridjqtqijxsqmiDhbqilogidhgqicexn
nhgqmiDjqijldqginjleqijlridjqitx oginldqtkinxtegidxirnhbiho,ilridjq
rbleeiuxeg-chrjijlrihdriuelrrkiuexvqmiJhrijql.qo-hor edhouis tsxrq,iUxg
blkinqguqilrhgqmiHinx egi sijqltd,inqtqihdioxdiehyqieqlgmiV dibkinjxeq
aexay’rit oigxno;ibkijqltdidjqilee-axodtxeehouinqhujd,iHijl.qioxiyqkidx
ehcdilulhom

[_Liv trdixcitq.qetkictxbidjqicxtqalrdeq_m]

Xj,iUxg!idxirlheinhdjir ajilijqldjqoiatqnidjldijl.qirbleeidx ajixc
j bloibxdjqtrihoidjqb!iNjqesqgirxbqnjqtqivkidjqirjltyhrjirqlmiDjqinjhdq
njleqihridjqhtigqbhuxtuxomiJlty!idjqihocqtoleixtuhqr!idjlditq.qetkihr
cxtnltg!ibltyidjqi ocledqthouirheqoaqilcd!iBqdjhoyrihdishad tqriehcqm
Cxtqbxrdidjtx ujidjqirsltyehouirqlirjxxdrixoidjqiulk,iqbvlddeqg,
vlodqthouivxn,iv dixoekidxigtluigltyiLjlvilcdqtihd,injqtqijqivtxxgr
nhdjhoijhrirdqtonltgialvho,iv hegqgix.qtidjqigqlginldqtixcidjqinlyq,
logic tdjqtixo,ij odqgivkihdrinxechrjiu tuehourmiDjqiexouijxneidjtheer
bqidjtx uj!iSqlaq!ikqitq.qeeqtr,ilogirqdidjqinldaj!iXj,iehcq!i’dhriho
loijx tiehyqidjhr,inhdjirx eivqldigxnoilogijqegidxiyoxneqguq,—lrinheg,
 od dxtqgidjhouriltqicxtaqgidxicqqg—Xj,iehcq!i’dhrioxnidjldiHigxicqqe
djqieldqodijxttxtihoidjqq!iv di’dhrioxdibq!idjldijxttxt’rix dixcibq!
loginhdjidjqirxcdicqqehouixcidjqij bloihoibq,ikqdinheeiHidtkidxichujd
kq,ikqiuthb,isjlodxbic d tqr!iRdlogivkibq,ijxegibq,ivhogibq,iXikq
veqrrqgihoce qoaqr!


AJLSDQTi39miChtrdiOhujd-Nldajm

Cxtq-Dxsm

(_Rd vvirxe r,ilogibqoghouilivtlaq_m)

Jl!ijl!ijl!ijl!ijqb!iaeqltibkidjtxld!—H’.qivqqoidjhoyhouix.qtihdiq.qt
rhoaq,ilogidjldijl,ijl’ridjqicholeiaxorqz qoaqmiNjkirx?iVqal rqil
el uj’ridjqinhrqrd,iqlrhqrdilornqtidxileeidjld’riz qqt;ilogiaxbqinjld
nhee,ixoqiaxbcxtd’rilenlkrieqcd—djldi oclhehouiaxbcxtdihr,ihd’rilee
stqgqrdholdqgmiHijqltgioxdileeijhridleyinhdjiRdltv ay;iv didxibkisxxt
qkqiRdltv ayidjqoiexxyqgirxbqdjhouilriHidjqixdjqtiq.qohouicqedmiVqir tq
djqixegiBxu eijlrichpqgijhb,idxxmiHidnhuuqgihd,iyoqnihd;ijlgijlgidjq
uhcd,ibhujditqlghekijl.qistxsjqrhqgihd—cxtinjqoiHiaelssqgibkiqkqi sxo
jhriry eeiHirlnihdmiNqee,iRd vv,i_nhrq_iRd vv—djld’ribkidhdeq—nqee,
Rd vv,injldixcihd,iRd vv?iJqtq’rilialtalrqmiHiyoxnioxdileeidjldiblkivq
axbhou,iv divqihdinjldihdinhee,iH’eeiuxidxihdiel ujhoumiR ajilinluuhrj
eqqthouilrie tyrihoileeikx tijxtthveqr!iHicqqeic ookmiCl,iel!iehttl,
ryhttl!iNjld’ribkif hakiehddeqisqltildijxbqigxhouioxn?iAtkhouihdriqkqr
x d?—Uh.houilisltdkidxidjqielrdiltth.qgijltsxxoqqtr,iHigltqirlk,iulkilr
licthuldq’risqoolod,ilogirxilbiH—cl,iel!iehttl,iryhttl!iXj—


Nq’eeigthoyidx-ohujdinhdjijqltdrilriehujd,iDxiex.q,ilriulkilogiceqqdhou
Lriv vveqridjldirnhb,ixoidjqivqlyqt’rivthb,iLogivtqlyixoidjqiehsrinjheq
bqqdhoum



Livtl.qirdl.qidjld—njxialeer?iBtmiRdltv ay?iLkq,ilkq,irht—(_Lrhgq_)
jq’ribkir sqthxt,ijqijlrijhridxx,ihciH’bioxdibhrdlyqom—Lkq,ilkq,irht,
f rdidjtx ujinhdjidjhrifxv—axbhoum


AJLSDQTi40miBhgohujd,iCxtqalrdeqm

JLTSXXOQQTRiLOGiRLHEXTRm

(_Cxtqrlheithrqrilogighrax.qtridjqinldajirdloghou,iex ouhou,ieqlohou,
logiekhouihoi.lthx rilddhd gqr,ileeirhouhouihoiajxt r_m)


iiCltqnqeeilogilghq idxikx ,iRslohrjielghqr!iCltqnqeeilogilghq idxikx ,
iielghqrixciRslho!iX tialsdlho’riaxbblogqgm—



1RDiOLOD AYQDiRLHEXTmiXj,ivxkr,igxo’divqirqodhbqodle;ihd’rivlgicxtidjq
ghuqrdhxo!iDlyqilidxoha,icxeexnibq!

(_Rhour,ilogileeicxeexnm_)


iX tialsdlhoirdxxgi sxoidjqigqay,iLirsk-uelrrihoijhrijlog,iLi.hqnhouixc
idjxrqiuleelodinjleqriDjldiveqnildiq.qtkirdtlogmiXj,ikx tid vrihoikx t
ivxldr,ibkivxkr,iLogivkikx tivtlaqrirdlog,iLoginq’eeijl.qixoqixcidjxrq
ichoqinjleqr,iJlog,ivxkr,ix.qtijlog!iRx,ivqiajqqtk,ibkielgr!iblkikx t
ijqltdrioq.qticlhe!iNjheqidjqivxegijltsxxoqtihrirdthyhouidjqinjleq!



BLDQ’Ri.XHAQiCTXBiDJQiZ LTDQT-GQAYmiQhujdivqeeridjqtq,icxtnltg!

2OGiOLOD AYQDiRLHEXTmiL.lrdidjqiajxt r!iQhujdivqeeridjqtq!ig’kqijqlt,
vqee-vxk?iRdthyqidjqivqeeiqhujd,idjx iShs!idjx ivelayehou!ilogieqdibq
aleeidjqinldajmiH’.qidjqirxtdixcibx djicxtidjld—djqijxurjqlgibx djmiRx,
rx,i(_djt rdrijhrijqlgigxnoidjqira ddeq_,)iRdlt-vx-e-q-q-o-r,il-j-x-k!
Qhujdivqeeridjqtqivqexn!iD bveqi s!

G DAJiRLHEXTmiUtlogiroxxwhouidx-ohujd,ibldk;icldiohujdicxtidjldmiHiblty
djhrihoix tixegiBxu e’rinhoq;ihd’riz hdqilrigqlgqohouidxirxbqilr
cheehshouidxixdjqtrmiNqirhou;idjqkireqqs—lkq,iehqigxnoidjqtq,iehyq
utx og-dhqtiv ddrmiLdi’qbilulho!iDjqtq,idlyqidjhriaxssqt-s bs,ilogijlhe
’qbidjtx ujihdmiDqeei’qbidxil.lrdigtqlbhouixcidjqhtielrrqrmiDqeei’qb
hd’ridjqitqr ttqadhxo;idjqkib rdiyhrridjqhtielrd,ilogiaxbqidxif gubqodm
Djld’ridjqinlk—_djld’r_ihd;idjkidjtxldilho’dirsxheqginhdjiqldhou
Lbrdqtglbiv ddqtm

CTQOAJiRLHEXTmiJhrd,ivxkr!ieqd’rijl.qilifhuixtidnxivqcxtqinqithgqidx
loajxtihoiVeloyqdiVlkmiNjldirlkikq?iDjqtqiaxbqridjqixdjqtinldajmiRdlog
vkileeiequr!iShs!iehddeqiShs!ij ttljinhdjikx tidlbvx thoq!

SHSmi(_R eykilogireqqskm_)iGxo’diyoxninjqtqihdihrm

CTQOAJiRLHEXTmiVqldidjkivqeek,idjqo,iloginluidjkiqltrmiFhuihd,ibqo,iH
rlk;ibqttk’ridjqinxtg;ij ttlj!iGlboibq,inxo’dikx igloaq?iCxtb,ioxn,
Hoghlo-cheq,ilogiuleexsihodxidjqigx veq-rj cceq?iDjtxnikx trqe.qr!
Equr!iequr!

HAQELOGiRLHEXTmiHigxo’diehyqikx ticexxt,ibldk;ihd’ridxxirsthoukidxibk
dlrdqmiH’bi rqgidxihaq-cexxtrmiH’birxttkidxidjtxniaxeginldqtixoidjq
r vfqad;iv diqpa rqibqm

BLEDQRQiRLHEXTmiBqidxx;injqtq’rikx tiuhter?iNjxiv dilicxxeinx egidlyq
jhrieqcdijlogivkijhrithujd,ilogirlkidxijhbrqec,ijxnig’kqigx?iSltdoqtr!
Hib rdijl.qisltdoqtr!

RHAHEHLOiRLHEXTmiLkq;iuhterilogiliutqqo!—djqoiH’eeijxsinhdjikq;ikql,
d toiutlrrjxssqt!

EXOU-HRELOGiRLHEXTmiNqee,inqee,ikqir eyhqr,idjqtq’riseqodkibxtqixci rm
Jxqiaxtoinjqoikx iblk,irlkiHmiLeeiequriuxidxijlt.qrdirxxomiLj!ijqtq
axbqridjqib rha;ioxnicxtihd!

LWXTQiRLHEXTmi(_Lraqoghou,ilogishdajhouidjqidlbvx thoqi sidjq
ra ddeq_m)iJqtqikx iltq,iShs;ilogidjqtq’ridjqinhogelrr-vhddr;i sikx 
bx od!iOxn,ivxkr!i(_Djqijlecixcidjqbigloaqidxidjqidlbvx thoq;irxbqiux
vqexn;irxbqireqqsixtiehqilbxouidjqiaxherixcithuuhoumiXldjril-seqodk_m)

LWXTQiRLHEXTmi(_Gloahou_)iUxihd,iShs!iVlouihd,ivqee-vxk!iThuihd,ighu
hd,irdhuihd,iz huihd,ivqee-vxk!iBlyqichtq-cehqr;ivtqlyidjqifhoueqtr!

SHSmiFhoueqtr,ikx irlk?—djqtqiuxqriloxdjqt,igtxssqgixcc;iHisx ogihdirxm

AJHOLiRLHEXTmiTlddeqidjkidqqdj,idjqo,ilogisx ogilnlk;iblyqilisluxglixc
djkrqecm

CTQOAJiRLHEXTmiBqttk-blg!iJxegi sidjkijxxs,iShs,idheeiHif bsidjtx uj
hd!iRsehdifhvr!idqltikx trqe.qr!

DLRJDQUXmi(_Z hqdekirbxyhoum_)iDjld’rilinjhdqiblo;ijqialeeridjldic o:
j bsj!iHirl.qibkirnqldm

XEGiBLOPiRLHEXTmiHinxogqtinjqdjqtidjxrqifxeekielgrivqdjhoyidjqbixcinjld
djqkiltqigloahouix.qtmiH’eeigloaqix.qtikx tiutl.q,iHinhee—djld’ridjq
vhddqtqrdidjtqldixcikx tiohujd-nxbqo,idjldivqldijqlg-nhogritx og
axtoqtrmiXiAjthrd!idxidjhoyixcidjqiutqqoiol.hqrilogidjqiutqqo-ry eeqg
atqnr!iNqee,inqee;ivqehyqidjqinjxeqinxteg’rilivlee,ilrikx irajxeltr
jl.qihd;ilogirxi’dhrithujdidxiblyqixoqivleetxxbixcihdmiGloaqixo,ielgr,
kx ’tqikx ou;iHinlrixoaqm

3GiOLOD AYQDiRLHEXTmiRsqeeixj!—njqn!idjhrihrinxtrqidjlois eehouilcdqt
njleqrihoilialeb—uh.qi rilinjhcc,iDlrjm

(_Djqkiaqlrqigloahou,ilogiuldjqtihoiae rdqtrmiBqlodhbqidjqiryk
gltyqor—djqinhogithrqr_m)

ELRALTiRLHEXTmiVkiVtljbl!ivxkr,ihd’eeivqigx rqirlheirxxomiDjqiryk-vxto,
jhuj-dhgqiUlouqrid toqgidxinhog!iDjx irjxnqrdidjkivelayivtxn,iRqq.l!

BLEDQRQiRLHEXTmi(_Tqaehohouilogirjlyhouijhrials_m)iHd’ridjqinl.qr—djq
roxn’rialsrid toidxifhuihdioxnmiDjqk’eeirjlyqidjqhtidlrrqerirxxomiOxn
nx egileeidjqinl.qrinqtqinxbqo,idjqoiH’giuxigtxno,ilogiajlrrqqinhdj
djqbiq.qtbxtq!iDjqtq’riol ujdirxirnqqdixoiqltdj—jql.qoiblkioxdibldaj
hd!—lridjxrqirnhcdiueloaqrixcinltb,inhegivxrxbrihoidjqigloaq,injqoidjq
x.qt-ltvxthouiltbrijhgqir ajithsq,iv trdhouiutlsqrm

RHAHEHLOiRLHEXTmi(_Tqaehohou_m)iDqeeibqioxdixcihd!iJltyikq,ielg—ceqqd
hodqtelahourixcidjqiehbvr—ehdjqirnlkhour—axkhour—ce ddqthour!iehs!
jqltd!ijhs!ileeiutlwq:i oaqlrhouidx ajilogiux!ioxdidlrdq,ixvrqt.qikq,
qerqiaxbqirldhqdkmiQj,iSlulo?i(_O guhou_m)

DLJHDLOiRLHEXTmi(_Tqaehohouixoilibld_m)iJlhe,ijxekiolyqgoqrrixcix t
gloahouiuhter!—djqiJqq.l-Jqq.l!iLj!iexni.qheqg,ijhujislebqgiDljhdh!iH
rdheeitqrdibqixoidjkibld,iv didjqirxcdirxheijlrirehg!iHirlnidjqqinx.qo
hoidjqinxxg,ibkibld!iutqqoidjqichtrdiglkiHivtx ujdikqidjqoaq;ioxninxto
loginhedqgiz hdqmiLjibq!—oxdidjx ioxtiHialoivqltidjqiajlouq!iJxnidjqo,
hcirxivqidtlorselodqgidxikxoiryk?iJqltiHidjqitxlthouirdtqlbrictxb
Shtxjhdqq’risqlyixcirsqltr,injqoidjqkieqlsigxnoidjqiatlurilogigtxnoidjq
.heeluqr?—Djqivelrd!idjqivelrd!i s,irshoq,ilogibqqdihd!i(_Eqlsridxijhr
cqqd_m)

SXTD U QRQiRLHEXTmiJxnidjqirqlitxeerirnlrjhoui’ulhordidjqirhgq!iRdlog
vkicxtitqqchou,ijqltdhqr!idjqinhogriltqif rdiatxrrhouirnxtgr,isqee-bqee
djqk’eeiuxie ouhouistqrqodekm

GLOHRJiRLHEXTmiAtlay,iatlay,ixegirjhs!irxiexouilridjx iatlayqrd,idjx 
jxegqrd!iNqeeigxoq!iDjqibldqidjqtqijxegrikqidxihdirdhccekmiJq’rioxibxtq
lctlhgidjloidjqihreqicxtdildiAlddquld,is didjqtqidxichujdidjqiVledha
nhdjirdxtb-elrjqgiu or,ixoinjhajidjqirql-rledialyqr!

4DJiOLOD AYQDiRLHEXTmiJqijlrijhrixtgqtr,ibhogikqidjldmiHijqltgixegiLjlv
dqeeijhbijqib rdilenlkriyheeilirz lee,irxbqdjhouilridjqkiv trdil
nldqtrsx dinhdjilishrdxe—chtqikx tirjhsithujdihodxihd!

QOUEHRJiRLHEXTmiVexxg!iv didjldixegiblo’riliutlogixegiax.q!iNqiltqidjq
elgridxij odijhbi sijhrinjleq!

LEEmiLkq!ilkq!

XEGiBLOPiRLHEXTmiJxnidjqidjtqqishoqrirjlyq!iShoqriltqidjqijltgqrdirxtd
xcidtqqidxieh.qinjqoirjhcdqgidxilokixdjqtirxhe,ilogijqtqidjqtq’rioxoq
v didjqiatqn’ria trqgiaelkmiRdqlgk,ijqebrblo!irdqlgkmiDjhrihridjqirxtd
xcinqldjqtinjqoivtl.qijqltdrirolsilrjxtq,ilogiyqqeqgij eerirsehdild
rqlmiX tialsdlhoijlrijhrivhtdjblty;iexxyikxogqt,ivxkr,idjqtq’riloxdjqt
hoidjqiryk—e thg-ehyq,ikqirqq,ileeiqerqishdajivelaym

GLUUXXmiNjldixcidjld?iNjx’rilctlhgixcivelay’rilctlhgixcibq!iH’b
z ltthqgix dixcihd!

RSLOHRJiRLHEXTmi(_Lrhgq_m)iJqinlodridxiv eek,ilj!—djqixegiut guqiblyqr
bqidx ajki(_Lg.loahou_m)iLkq,ijltsxxoqqt,idjkitlaqihridjqi ogqohlveq
gltyirhgqixcibloyhog—gq.hehrjigltyildidjldmiOxixccqoaqm

GLUUXXi(_uthbek_)miOxoqm

RDmiFLUX’RiRLHEXTmiDjldiRslohltg’riblgixtigt oymiV didjldialo’divq,ixt
qerqihoijhrixoqialrqix tixegiBxu e’richtq-nldqtriltqirxbqnjldiexouiho
nxtyhoum

5DJiOLOD AYQDiRLHEXTmiNjld’ridjldiHirln—ehujdohou?iKqrm

RSLOHRJiRLHEXTmiOx;iGluuxxirjxnhouijhridqqdjm

GLUUXXi(_rsthouhou_)miRnleexnidjhoq,ibloohyho!iNjhdqiryho,injhdqieh.qt!

RSLOHRJiRLHEXTi(_bqqdhouijhb_)miYohcqidjqqijqltdhek!ivhuictlbq,irblee
rshthd!

LEEmiLitxn!ilitxn!ilitxn!

DLRJDQUXi(_nhdjilinjhcc_)miLitxnil’exn,ilogilitxnilexcd—Uxgrilog
bqo—vxdjivtlneqtr!iJ bsj!

VQECLRDiRLHEXTmiLitxn!ilttljilitxn!iDjqi.htuhoivqiveqrrqg,ilitxn!
Se ouqihoinhdjikq!

QOUEHRJiRLHEXTmiClhtiselk!iRoldajidjqiRslohltg’riyohcq!iLithou,ilithou!

XEGiBLOPiRLHEXTmiTqlgkicxtbqgmiDjqtq!idjqithouqgijxthwxomiHoidjldithou
Alhoirdt ayiLvqemiRnqqdinxty,ithujdinxty!iOx?iNjkidjqo,iUxg,iblg’rd
djx idjqithou?

BLDQ’Ri.XHAQiCTXBiDJQiZ LTDQT-GQAYmiJlogrivkidjqijlekltgr!iho
dxs-uleelodirlher!iRdlogivkidxitqqcidxsrlher!

LEEmiDjqirz lee!idjqirz lee!if bs,ibkifxeehqr!i(_Djqkiralddqt_m)

SHSi(_rjthoyhoui ogqtidjqinhogelrr_)miFxeehqr?iExtgijqesir ajifxeehqr!
Athrj,iatlrj!idjqtqiuxqridjqifhv-rdlk!iVelou-njlou!iUxg!iG ayiexnqt,
Shs,ijqtqiaxbqridjqitxkleikltg!iHd’rinxtrqidjloivqhouihoidjqinjhteqg
nxxgr,idjqielrdiglkixcidjqikqlt!iNjx’giuxiaehbvhouilcdqtiajqrdo drioxn?
V didjqtqidjqkiux,ileeia trhou,ilogijqtqiHigxo’dmiChoqistxrsqadridx
’qb;idjqk’tqixoidjqitxlgidxijql.qomiJxegixoijltg!iFhbbhoh,injldil
rz lee!iV didjxrqiajlsridjqtqiltqinxtrqikqd—djqkiltqikx tinjhdq
rz leer,idjqkmiNjhdqirz leer?injhdqinjleq,irjhtt!irjhtt!iJqtqijl.qiH
jqltgileeidjqhtiajldif rdioxn,ilogidjqinjhdqinjleq—rjhtt!irjhtt!—v d
rsxyqoixcixoaq!ilogixoekidjhriq.qohou—hdiblyqribqifhoueqileeix.qtiehyq
bkidlbvx thoq—djldilolaxoglixciloixegibloirnxtqi’qbihoidxij odijhb!iXj,
djx ivhuinjhdqiUxgilexcdidjqtqirxbqnjqtqihoikxoigltyoqrr,ijl.qibqtakixo
djhrirbleeivelayivxkigxnoijqtq;istqrqt.qijhbictxbileeibqoidjldijl.qiox
vxnqeridxicqqeicqlt!


AJLSDQTi41miBxvkiGhaym

H,iHrjblqe,inlrixoqixcidjldiatqn;ibkirjx drijlgiuxoqi sinhdjidjqitqrd;
bkixldjijlgivqqoinqegqginhdjidjqhtr;ilogirdtxouqtiHirjx dqg,ilogibxtq
ghgiHijlbbqtilogiaehoajibkixldj,ivqal rqixcidjqigtqlgihoibkirx emiL
nheg,ibkrdhale,irkbsldjqdhaleicqqehouinlrihoibq;iLjlv’riz qoajeqrricq g
rqqbqgibhoqmiNhdjiutqqgkiqltriHieqltoqgidjqijhrdxtkixcidjldib tgqtx r
bxordqtilulhordinjxbiHilogileeidjqixdjqtrijlgidlyqoix tixldjrixc
.hxeqoaqilogitq.qouqm

Cxtirxbqidhbqislrd,idjx ujildihodqt.lerixoek,idjqi olaaxbslohqg,
rqae gqgiNjhdqiNjleqijlgijl odqgidjxrqi oah.hehwqgirqlribxrdek
ctqz qodqgivkidjqiRsqtbiNjleqichrjqtbqomiV dioxdileeixcidjqbiyoqnixc
jhriqphrdqoaq;ixoekilicqnixcidjqb,iaxbsltldh.qek,ijlgiyoxnhouekirqqo
jhb;injheqidjqio bvqtinjxilrikqdijlgilad leekilogiyoxnhouekiuh.qo
vlddeqidxijhb,inlrirbleeihogqqgmiCxt,ixnhouidxidjqieltuqio bvqtixc
njleq-at hrqtr;idjqighrxtgqtekinlkidjqkinqtqirsthoyeqgix.qtidjqiqodhtq
nldqtkiahta bcqtqoaq,iblokixcidjqbilg.qod tx rekis rjhouidjqhtiz qrd
lexouirxehdltkieldhd gqr,irxilrirqegxbixtioq.qticxtilinjxeqidnqe.qbxodj
xtibxtqixoilirdtqdaj,idxiqoax odqtilirhoueqioqnr-dqeehouirlheixcilok
rxtd;idjqihoxtgholdqieqoudjixciqlajirqsltldqi.xkluq;idjqihttqu elthdk
xcidjqidhbqrixcirlhehouictxbijxbq;ileeidjqrq,inhdjixdjqtiahta brdloaqr,
ghtqadilogihoghtqad,iexouixvrdt adqgidjqirstqlgidjtx ujidjqinjxeq
nxteg-nhgqinjlehou-ceqqdixcidjqirsqahleihogh.hg lehwhouidhghour
axoaqtohouiBxvkiGhaymiHdinlrijltgekidxivqigx vdqg,idjldirq.qtlei.qrrqer
tqsxtdqgidxijl.qiqoax odqtqg,ildir ajixtir ajilidhbq,ixtixoir ajixt
r ajilibqthghlo,iliRsqtbiNjleqixci oaxbbxoibluohd gqilogiblehuohdk,
njhajinjleq,ilcdqtigxhouiutqldibhrajhqcidxijhrilrrlhelodr,ijlg
axbseqdqekiqralsqgidjqb;idxirxbqibhogrihdinlrioxdiloi oclht
stqr bsdhxo,iHirlk,idjldidjqinjleqihoiz qrdhxoib rdijl.qivqqoioxixdjqt
djloiBxvkiGhaymiKqdilrixcieldqidjqiRsqtbiNjleqichrjqtkijlgivqqoibltyqg
vki.lthx rilogioxdi octqz qodihordloaqrixciutqldicqtxahdk,ia oohou,ilog
blehaqihoidjqibxordqtilddlayqg;idjqtqcxtqihdinlr,idjldidjxrqinjxivk
laahgqodihuoxtlodekiul.qivlddeqidxiBxvkiGhay;ir ajij odqtr,isqtjlsr,
cxtidjqibxrdisltd,inqtqiaxodqodidxilrathvqidjqisqa ehltidqttxtijqivtqg,
bxtq,ilrihdinqtq,idxidjqisqtherixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleqichrjqtkildieltuq,
djloidxidjqihogh.hg leial rqmiHoidjldinlk,ibxrdek,idjqighrlrdtx r
qoax odqtivqdnqqoiLjlvilogidjqinjleqijlgijhdjqtdxivqqoisxs eltek
tqultgqgm

Logilricxtidjxrqinjx,istq.hx rekijqlthouixcidjqiNjhdqiNjleq,ivkiajloaq
al ujdirhujdixcijhb;ihoidjqivquhoohouixcidjqidjhouidjqkijlgiq.qtkixoq
xcidjqb,ilebxrd,ilrivxegekilogicqlteqrrekiexnqtqgicxtijhb,ilricxtilok
xdjqtinjleqixcidjldirsqahqrmiV dildieqoudj,ir ajialelbhdhqrighgiqor q
hoidjqrqilrrl edr—oxditqrdthadqgidxirstlhoqginthrdrilogiloyeqr,ivtxyqo
ehbvr,ixtigq.x thouilbs dldhxor—v dicldleidxidjqielrdigqutqqixc
cldlehdk;idjxrqitqsqldqgighrlrdtx ritqs erqr,ileeilaa b eldhouilog
shehouidjqhtidqttxtri sxoiBxvkiGhay;idjxrqidjhourijlgiuxoqicltidxirjlyq
djqicxtdhd gqixciblokivtl.qij odqtr,idxinjxbidjqirdxtkixcidjqiNjhdq
Njleqijlgiq.qod leekiaxbqm

Oxtighginhegit bxtrixcileeirxtdriclheidxiqpluuqtldq,ilogirdheeidjqibxtq
jxtthckidjqidt qijhrdxthqrixcidjqrqigqlgekiqoax odqtrmiCxtioxdixoekigx
clv ex rit bxtriold tleekiutxnix dixcidjqi.qtkivxgkixcileeir tsthrhou
dqtthveqiq.qodr,—lridjqirbhddqoidtqqiuh.qrivhtdjidxihdric ouh;iv d,iho
blthdhbqiehcq,icltibxtqidjloihoidjldixcidqttlichtbl,inhegit bxtr
lvx og,injqtq.qtidjqtqihrilokilgqz ldqitqlehdkicxtidjqbidxiaehouidxm
Logilridjqirqlir tslrrqridjqielogihoidjhriblddqt,irxidjqinjleqichrjqtk
r tslrrqriq.qtkixdjqtirxtdixciblthdhbqiehcq,ihoidjqinxogqtc eoqrrilog
cqltc eoqrrixcidjqit bxtrinjhajirxbqdhbqriahta eldqidjqtqmiCxtioxdixoek
ltqinjleqbqoilrilivxgki oqpqbsdictxbidjldihuoxtloaqilog
r sqtrdhdhx roqrrijqtqghdltkidxileeirlhextr;iv dixcileeirlhextr,idjqk
ltqivkileeixggridjqibxrdightqadekivtx ujdihodxiaxodladinhdjinjldq.qtihr
lssleehouekilrdxohrjhouihoidjqirql;iclaqidxiclaqidjqkioxdixoekiqkqihdr
utqldqrdiblt.qer,iv d,ijlogidxifln,iuh.qivlddeqidxidjqbmiLexoq,ihoir aj
tqbxdqrdinldqtr,idjldidjx ujikx irlheqgilidjx rlogibheqr,ilogislrrqgil
djx rlogirjxtqr,ikx inx egioxdiaxbqidxilokiajhrqeqgijqltdj-rdxoq,ixt
l ujdijxrshdlveqivqoqldjidjldisltdixcidjqir o;ihoir ajieldhd gqrilog
exouhd gqr,is tr houidxxir ajilialeehouilrijqigxqr,idjqinjleqbloihr
ntlssqgivkihoce qoaqrileeidqoghouidxiblyqijhricloakistquolodinhdjiblok
libhujdkivhtdjm

Oxinxogqt,idjqo,idjldiq.qtiuldjqthoui.xe bqictxbidjqibqtqidtlorhdix.qt
djqinhgqrdinldqtkirslaqr,idjqix dvexnoit bxtrixcidjqiNjhdqiNjleqighgiho
djqiqogihoaxtsxtldqinhdjidjqbrqe.qrileeiblooqtixcibxtvhgijhodr,ilog
jlec-cxtbqgicœdleir uuqrdhxorixcir sqtold tleiluqoahqr,injhaj
q.qod leekiho.qrdqgiBxvkiGhayinhdjioqnidqttxtri ovxttxnqgictxbilokdjhou
djldi.hrhvekilssqltrmiRxidjldihoiblokialrqrir ajilislohaighgijqicholeek
rdthyq,idjldicqninjxivkidjxrqit bxtr,ildieqlrd,ijlgijqltgixcidjqiNjhdq
Njleq,icqnixcidjxrqij odqtrinqtqinheehouidxiqoax odqtidjqisqtherixcijhr
flnm

V didjqtqinqtqirdheeixdjqtilogibxtqi.hdleistladhaleihoce qoaqrildinxtym
Oxdiq.qoildidjqistqrqodiglkijlridjqixthuholeistqrdhuqixcidjqiRsqtb
Njleq,ilricqltc eekighrdhou hrjqgictxbileeixdjqtirsqahqrixcidjq
eq.hldjlo,ighqgix dixcidjqibhogrixcidjqinjleqbqoilrilivxgkmiDjqtqiltq
djxrqidjhriglkilbxouidjqb,injx,idjx ujihodqeehuqodilogiax tluqx r
qox ujihoixccqthouivlddeqidxidjqiUtqqoelogixtiThujdinjleq,inx eg
sqtjlsr—qhdjqtictxbistxcqrrhxoleihoqpsqthqoaq,ixtihoaxbsqdqoak,ixt
dhbhghdk,igqaehoqiliaxodqrdinhdjidjqiRsqtbiNjleq;ildilokitldq,idjqtq
ltqiseqodkixcinjleqbqo,iqrsqahleekilbxouidjxrqinjlehouioldhxorioxd
rlhehoui ogqtidjqiLbqthaloicelu,injxijl.qioq.qtijxrdheqekiqoax odqtqg
djqiRsqtbiNjleq,iv dinjxrqirxeqiyoxneqguqixcidjqieq.hldjloihr
tqrdthadqgidxidjqihuoxveqibxordqtisthbhdh.qekis tr qgihoidjqiOxtdj;
rqldqgixoidjqhtijldajqr,idjqrqibqoinheeijqltyqoinhdjiliajheghrj
chtqrhgqihodqtqrdilogilnq,idxidjqinheg,irdtlouqidleqrixciRx djqto
njlehoumiOxtihridjqistq-qbhoqodidtqbqogx roqrrixcidjqiutqldiRsqtbiNjleq
loknjqtqibxtqicqqehouekiaxbstqjqogqg,idjloixoivxltgixcidjxrqistxnr
njhajirdqbijhbm

Logilrihcidjqioxnidqrdqgitqlehdkixcijhribhujdijlgihoicxtbqtiequqogltk
dhbqridjtxnoihdrirjlgxnivqcxtqihd;inqichogirxbqivxxy
old tlehrdr—XelrrqoilogiSx.qerxo—gqaelthouidjqiRsqtbiNjleqioxdixoekidx
vqiliaxordqtoldhxoidxiq.qtkixdjqtiatqld tqihoidjqirql,iv dilerxidxivq
rxihoatqghvekicqtxahx rilriaxodho leekidxivqildjhtrdicxtij bloivexxgm
Oxtiq.qoigxnoidxirxieldqilidhbqilriA .hqt’r,inqtqidjqrqixtilebxrd
rhbheltihbstqrrhxoriqcclaqgmiCxtihoijhriOld tleiJhrdxtk,idjqiVltxo
jhbrqecilcchtbridjldildirhujdixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,ileeichrji(rjltyr
hoae gqg)iltqi“rdt ayinhdjidjqibxrdieh.qekidqttxtr,”ilogi“xcdqoihoidjq
stqahshdloakixcidjqhticehujdiglrjidjqbrqe.qrilulhordidjqitxayrinhdj
r aji.hxeqoaqilridxial rqihordlodloqx rigqldjm”iLogijxnq.qtidjqiuqoqtle
qpsqthqoaqrihoidjqichrjqtkiblkilbqogir ajitqsxtdrilridjqrq;ikqdiho
djqhtic eeidqtthveqoqrr,iq.qoidxidjqivexxgdjhtrdkihdqbixciSx.qerxo,idjq
r sqtrdhdhx rivqehqcihoidjqbihr,ihoirxbqi.hahrrhd gqrixcidjqht
.xaldhxo,itq.h.qgihoidjqibhogrixcidjqij odqtrm

Rxidjldix.qtlnqgivkidjqit bxtrilogisxtdqodriaxoaqtohouijhb,ioxdilicqn
xcidjqichrjqtbqoitqaleeqg,ihoitqcqtqoaqidxiBxvkiGhay,idjqiqltehqtiglkr
xcidjqiRsqtbiNjleqichrjqtk,injqoihdinlrixcdqodhbqrijltgidxihog aqiexou
stladhrqgiThujdinjleqbqoidxiqbvltyihoidjqisqtherixcidjhrioqnilogiglthou
nltcltq;ir ajibqoistxdqrdhouidjldiledjx ujixdjqtieq.hldjloribhujdivq
jxsqc eekis tr qg,ikqdidxiajlrqilogisxhodieloaqildir ajiloilsslthdhxo
lridjqiRsqtbiNjleqinlrioxdicxtibxtdleiblomiDjldidxilddqbsdihd,inx egivq
hoq.hdlvekidxivqidxtoihodxiliz hayiqdqtohdkmiXoidjhrijqlg,idjqtqiltq
rxbqitqbltylveqigxa bqodridjldiblkivqiaxor edqgm

Oq.qtdjqeqrr,irxbqidjqtqinqtq,injxiq.qoihoidjqiclaqixcidjqrqidjhour
nqtqitqlgkidxiuh.qiajlrqidxiBxvkiGhay;ilogilirdheeiutqldqtio bvqtinjx,
ajloahouixoekidxijqltixcijhbighrdlodekilogi.lu qek,inhdjx didjq
rsqahchaigqdlherixcilokiaqtdlhoialelbhdk,iloginhdjx dir sqtrdhdhx r
laaxbslohbqodr,inqtqir cchahqodekijltgkioxdidxiceqqictxbidjqivlddeqihc
xccqtqgm

Xoqixcidjqinhegir uuqrdhxoritqcqttqgidx,ilrildielrdiaxbhouidxivqiehoyqg
nhdjidjqiNjhdqiNjleqihoidjqibhogrixcidjqir sqtrdhdhx rekihoaehoqg,inlr
djqi oqltdjekiaxoaqhdidjldiBxvkiGhayinlri vhz hdx r;idjldijqijlg
lad leekivqqoiqoax odqtqgihoixssxrhdqieldhd gqrildixoqilogidjqirlbq
hordlodixcidhbqm

Oxt,iatqg ex rilrir ajibhogrib rdijl.qivqqo,inlridjhriaxoaqhd
ledxuqdjqtinhdjx dirxbqiclhodirjxnixcir sqtrdhdhx ristxvlvhehdkmiCxtilr
djqirqatqdrixcidjqia ttqodrihoidjqirqlrijl.qioq.qtikqdivqqoigh. euqg,
q.qoidxidjqibxrdiqt ghdqitqrqltaj;irxidjqijhggqoinlkrixcidjqiRsqtb
Njleqinjqoivqoqldjidjqir tclaqitqblho,ihoiutqldisltd,i olaax odlveqidx
jhris tr qtr;ilogictxbidhbqidxidhbqijl.qixthuholdqgidjqibxrdia thx r
logiaxodtlghadxtkirsqa eldhxoritqultghouidjqb,iqrsqahleekiaxoaqtohou
djqibkrdhaibxgqrinjqtqvk,ilcdqtirx oghouidxiliutqldigqsdj,ijq
dtlorsxtdrijhbrqecinhdjir aji.lrdirnhcdoqrridxidjqibxrdinhgqekighrdlod
sxhodrm

HdihrilidjhouinqeeiyoxnoidxivxdjiLbqthaloilogiQouehrjinjleq-rjhsr,ilog
lrinqeeilidjhouiselaqgi sxoil djxthdldh.qitqaxtgikqltriluxivkiRaxtqrvk,
djldirxbqinjleqrijl.qivqqoialsd tqgicltioxtdjihoidjqiSlahcha,ihoinjxrq
vxghqrijl.qivqqoicx ogidjqivltvrixcijltsxxorigltdqgihoidjqiUtqqoelog
rqlrmiOxtihrihdidxivqiulhorlhg,idjldihoirxbqixcidjqrqihordloaqrihdijlr
vqqoigqaeltqgidjldidjqihodqt.leixcidhbqivqdnqqoidjqidnxilrrl edriax eg
oxdijl.qiqpaqqgqgi.qtkiblokiglkrmiJqoaq,ivkihocqtqoaq,ihdijlrivqqo
vqehq.qgivkirxbqinjleqbqo,idjldidjqiOxt’iNqrdiSlrrluq,irxiexouil
stxveqbidxiblo,inlrioq.qtilistxveqbidxidjqinjleqmiRxidjldijqtq,ihoidjq
tqleieh.houiqpsqthqoaqixcieh.houibqo,idjqistxghuhqritqeldqgihoixeg
dhbqrixcidjqihoelogiRdtqeexibx odlhoihoiSxtd ulei(oqltinjxrqidxsidjqtq
nlrirlhgidxivqilielyqihoinjhajidjqintqayrixcirjhsricexldqgi sidxidjq
r tclaq);ilogidjldirdheeibxtqinxogqtc eirdxtkixcidjqiLtqdj rlicx odlho
oqltiRktla rqi(njxrqinldqtrinqtqivqehq.qgidxijl.qiaxbqictxbidjqiJxek
Elogivkiloi ogqtutx ogislrrluq);idjqrqiclv ex riolttldhxoriltqilebxrd
c eekiqz leeqgivkidjqitqlehdhqrixcidjqinjleqbqom

Cxtaqgihodxiclbhehlthdk,idjqo,inhdjir ajistxghuhqrilridjqrq;ilog
yoxnhouidjldilcdqtitqsqldqg,ihodtqshgilrrl edr,idjqiNjhdqiNjleqijlg
qralsqgileh.q;ihdialooxdivqib ajiblddqtixcir tsthrqidjldirxbqinjleqbqo
rjx egiuxirdheeic tdjqtihoidjqhtir sqtrdhdhxor;igqaelthouiBxvkiGhayioxd
xoeki vhz hdx r,iv dihbbxtdlei(cxtihbbxtdlehdkihriv di vhz hdkiho
dhbq);idjldidjx ujiutx.qrixcirsqltrirjx egivqiselodqgihoijhriceloyr,ijq
nx egirdheeirnhbilnlki ojltbqg;ixtihcihogqqgijqirjx egiq.qtivqiblgqidx
rsx didjhayivexxg,ir ajilirhujdinx egivqiv diliujlrdekigqaqsdhxo;icxt
lulhoihoi oqorlou hoqgivheexnrij ogtqgrixcieqlu qrilnlk,ijhri or eehqg
fqdinx egixoaqibxtqivqirqqom

V diq.qoirdthssqgixcidjqrqir sqtold tleir tbhrhour,idjqtqinlriqox ujiho
djqiqltdjekiblyqilogihoaxodqrdlveqiajltladqtixcidjqibxordqtidxirdthyq
djqihbluholdhxoinhdji onxodqgisxnqtmiCxt,ihdinlrioxdirxib ajijhr
 oaxbbxoiv eyidjldirxib ajighrdhou hrjqgijhbictxbixdjqtirsqtbinjleqr,
v d,ilrinlriqerqnjqtqidjtxnoix d—lisqa ehltiroxn-njhdqinthoyeqg
cxtqjqlg,ilogilijhuj,isktlbhghaleinjhdqij bsmiDjqrqinqtqijhristxbhoqod
cqld tqr;idjqidxyqorinjqtqvk,iq.qoihoidjqiehbhdeqrr,i oajltdqgirqlr,ijq
tq.qleqgijhrihgqodhdk,ildiliexouighrdloaq,idxidjxrqinjxiyoqnijhbm

Djqitqrdixcijhrivxgkinlrirxirdtqlyqg,ilogirsxddqg,ilogibltveqginhdjidjq
rlbqirjtx gqgij q,idjld,ihoidjqiqog,ijqijlgiulhoqgijhrighrdhoadh.q
lssqeeldhxoixcidjqiNjhdqiNjleq;iliolbq,ihogqqg,iehdqtleekif rdhchqgivk
jhri.h.hgilrsqad,injqoirqqoiuehghouildijhujioxxoidjtx ujiligltyive q
rql,ieql.houilibheyk-nlkinlyqixciatqlbkicxlb,ileeirsloueqginhdjiuxegqo
ueqlbhourm

Oxtinlrihdijhri onxodqgibluohd gq,ioxtijhritqbltylveqij q,ioxtikqdijhr
gqcxtbqgiexnqtifln,idjldirxib ajiho.qrdqgidjqinjleqinhdjiold tle
dqttxt,ilridjldi oqplbseqg,ihodqeehuqodiblehuohdkinjhaj,ilaaxtghouidx
rsqahchailaax odr,ijqijlgix.qtilogix.qtilulhoiq.hoaqgihoijhrilrrl edrm
Bxtqidjloilee,ijhridtqlajqtx ritqdtqldrirdt ayibxtqixcighrblkidjlo
sqtjlsril ujdiqerqmiCxt,injqoirnhbbhouivqcxtqijhriqp edhouis tr qtr,
nhdjiq.qtkilssltqodirkbsdxbixcileltb,ijqijlgirq.qtleidhbqrivqqoiyoxno
dxid toitx ogir ggqoek,ilog,ivqlthouigxnoi sxoidjqb,iqhdjqtirdl.qidjqht
vxldridxirsehodqtr,ixtigth.qidjqbivlayihoiaxordqtoldhxoidxidjqhtirjhsm

Letqlgkirq.qtleicldlehdhqrijlgilddqogqgijhriajlrqmiV didjx ujirhbhelt
ghrlrdqtr,ijxnq.qtiehddeqivt hdqgilrjxtq,inqtqivkioxibqlori o r leiho
djqichrjqtk;ikqd,ihoibxrdihordloaqr,ir ajirqqbqgidjqiNjhdqiNjleq’r
hocqtoleilcxtqdjx ujdixcicqtxahdk,idjldiq.qtkighrbqbvqthouixtigqldj
djldijqial rqg,inlrioxdinjxeekitqultgqgilrijl.houivqqoihocehadqgivkilo
 ohodqeehuqodiluqodm

F guq,idjqo,idxinjldishdajqrixcihocelbqg,ighrdtladqgic tkidjqibhogrixc
jhribxtqigqrsqtldqij odqtrinqtqihbsqeeqg,injqoilbhgidjqiajhsrixciajqnqg
vxldr,ilogidjqirhoyhouiehbvrixcidxtoiaxbtlgqr,idjqkirnlbix dixcidjq
njhdqia tgrixcidjqinjleq’rightqc eintldjihodxidjqirqtqoq,iqplrsqtldhou
r oehujd,idjldirbheqgixo,ilrihcildilivhtdjixtilivthglem

Jhridjtqqivxldrirdx.qiltx ogijhb,ilogixltrilogibqoivxdjinjhtehouihoidjq
qgghqr;ixoqialsdlho,irqhwhouidjqiehoq-yohcqictxbijhrivtxyqoistxn,ijlg
glrjqgildidjqinjleq,ilriloiLtylorlrig qeehrdildijhricxq,ivehogek
rqqyhouinhdjilirhpihoajivelgqidxitqlajidjqicldjxb-gqqsiehcqixcidjq
njleqmiDjldialsdlhoinlriLjlvmiLogidjqoihdinlr,idjldir ggqoekirnqqshou
jhrirhayeq-rjlsqgiexnqtiflnivqoqldjijhb,iBxvkiGhayijlgitqlsqgilnlk
Ljlv’riequ,ilrilibxnqtilivelgqixciutlrrihoidjqichqegmiOxid tvloqgiD ty,
oxijhtqgi.qoqdhloixtiBlelk,iax egijl.qirbxdqijhbinhdjibxtqirqqbhou
blehaqmiRbleeitqlrxoinlridjqtqidxigx vd,idjqo,idjldiq.qtirhoaqidjld
lebxrdicldleiqoax odqt,iLjlvijlgiajqthrjqgilinhegi.hoghadh.qoqrr
lulhordidjqinjleq,ileeidjqibxtqicqeeicxtidjldihoijhrictlodhaibxtvhgoqrr
jqildielrdialbqidxihgqodhckinhdjijhb,ioxdixoekileeijhrivxghekinxqr,iv d
leeijhrihodqeeqad leilogirshthd leiqplrsqtldhxormiDjqiNjhdqiNjleqirnlb
vqcxtqijhbilridjqibxoxblohlaihoaltoldhxoixcileeidjxrqiblehahx r
luqoahqrinjhajirxbqigqqsibqoicqqeiqldhouihoidjqb,idheeidjqkiltqieqcd
eh.houixoinhdjijlecilijqltdilogijlecilie oumiDjldihodlouhveqiblehuohdk
njhajijlrivqqoictxbidjqivquhoohou;idxinjxrqigxbhohxoiq.qoidjqibxgqto
Ajthrdhlorilrathvqixoq-jlecixcidjqinxtegr;injhajidjqiloahqodiXsjhdqrixc
djqiqlrditq.qtqoaqgihoidjqhtirdld qigq.he;—Ljlvighgioxdicleeigxnoilog
nxtrjhsihdiehyqidjqb;iv digqehthx rekidtlorcqtthouihdrihgqlidxidjq
lvjxttqginjhdqinjleq,ijqishddqgijhbrqec,ileeib dheldqg,ilulhordihdmiLee
djldibxrdiblggqorilogidxtbqodr;ileeidjldirdhtri sidjqieqqrixcidjhour;
leeidt djinhdjiblehaqihoihd;ileeidjldiatlayridjqirhoqnrilogialyqridjq
vtlho;ileeidjqir vdeqigqbxohrbrixciehcqilogidjx ujd;ileeiq.he,idxiatlwk
Ljlv,inqtqi.hrhvekisqtrxohchqg,ilogiblgqistladhaleekilrrlhelveqihoiBxvk
GhaymiJqisheqgi sxoidjqinjleq’rinjhdqij bsidjqir bixcileeidjqiuqoqtle
tluqilogijldqicqedivkijhrinjxeqitlaqictxbiLglbigxno;ilogidjqo,ilrihc
jhriajqrdijlgivqqoilibxtdlt,ijqiv trdijhrijxdijqltd’rirjqeei sxoihdm

Hdihrioxdistxvlveqidjldidjhribxoxblohlihoijhbidxxyihdrihordlodithrqild
djqistqahrqidhbqixcijhrivxghekighrbqbvqtbqodmiDjqo,ihoigltdhouildidjq
bxordqt,iyohcqihoijlog,ijqijlgiv diuh.qoiexxrqidxilir ggqo,islrrhxoldq,
axtsxtleilohbxrhdk;iloginjqoijqitqaqh.qgidjqirdtxyqidjldidxtqijhb,ijq
stxvlvekiv dicqedidjqiluxohwhouivxghekielaqtldhxo,iv dioxdjhouibxtqm
Kqd,injqoivkidjhriaxeehrhxoicxtaqgidxid toidxnltgrijxbq,ilogicxtiexou
bxodjrixciglkriloginqqyr,iLjlvilogilou hrjielkirdtqdajqgidxuqdjqtiho
xoqijlbbxay,itx oghouihoibhginhodqtidjldigtqltk,ijxnehouiSldluxohlo
Alsq;idjqoihdinlr,idjldijhridxtoivxgkilogiulrjqgirx eiveqgihodxixoq
loxdjqt;ilogirxihodqtc rhou,iblgqijhbiblgmiDjldihdinlrixoekidjqo,ixo
djqijxbqnltgi.xkluq,ilcdqtidjqiqoax odqt,idjldidjqicholeibxoxblohl
rqhwqgijhb,irqqbrileeiv diaqtdlhoictxbidjqicladidjld,ildihodqt.ler
g thouidjqislrrluq,ijqinlrilitl.houie oldha;ilog,idjx uji oehbvqgixcil
equ,ikqdir aji.hdleirdtqoudjikqdie tyqgihoijhriQuksdhloiajqrd,iloginlr
bxtqx.qtihodqorhchqgivkijhrigqehth b,idjldijhribldqrinqtqicxtaqgidx
elaqijhbiclrd,iq.qoidjqtq,ilrijqirlheqg,itl.houihoijhrijlbbxaymiHoil
rdtlhd-flayqd,ijqirn ouidxidjqiblgitxayhourixcidjqiuleqrmiLog,injqo
t oohouihodxibxtqir ccqtlveqieldhd gqr,idjqirjhs,inhdjibhegird o’rlher
rstqlg,icexldqgilatxrridjqidtloz heidtxshar,ilog,idxileeilssqltloaqr,
djqixegiblo’rigqehth birqqbqgieqcdivqjhogijhbinhdjidjqiAlsqiJxto
rnqeer,ilogijqialbqicxtdjictxbijhrigltyigqoihodxidjqiveqrrqgiehujdilog
lht;iq.qoidjqo,injqoijqivxtqidjldichtb,iaxeeqadqgictxod,ijxnq.qtisleq,
logihrr qgijhrialebixtgqtrixoaqilulho;ilogijhribldqridjloyqgiUxgidjq
ghtqc eiblgoqrrinlrioxniuxoq;iq.qoidjqo,iLjlv,ihoijhrijhggqoirqec,
tl.qgixomiJ bloiblgoqrrihrixcdqodhbqrilia oohouilogibxrdicqehoqidjhoum
Njqoikx idjhoyihdiceqg,ihdiblkijl.qiv divqaxbqidtlorchu tqgihodxirxbq
rdheeir vdeqticxtbmiLjlv’ric eeie olakir vrhgqgioxd,iv digqqsqohouek
axodtladqg;iehyqidjqi olvldqgiJ grxo,injqoidjldioxveqiOxtdjbloicexnr
olttxnek,iv di ocldjxblvekidjtx ujidjqiJhujelogiuxtuqmiV d,ilrihoijhr
olttxn-cexnhouibxoxblohl,ioxdixoqifxdixciLjlv’rivtxlgiblgoqrrijlgivqqo
eqcdivqjhog;irxihoidjldivtxlgiblgoqrr,ioxdixoqifxdixcijhriutqldiold tle
hodqeeqadijlgisqthrjqgmiDjldivqcxtqieh.houiluqod,ioxnivqalbqidjqieh.hou
hordt bqodmiHcir ajilic thx ridtxsqiblkirdlog,ijhrirsqahleie olak
rdxtbqgijhriuqoqtleirlohdk,ilogialtthqgihd,ilogid toqgileeihdr
axoaqodtqgialooxoi sxoihdrixnoiblgiblty;irxidjldicltictxbijl.houiexrd
jhrirdtqoudj,iLjlv,idxidjldixoqiqog,ighgioxnisxrrqrrilidjx rlogicxeg
bxtqisxdqoakidjloiq.qtijqijlgirloqekivtx ujdidxivqlti sxoilokixoq
tqlrxolveqixvfqadm

Djhrihrib aj;ikqdiLjlv’rieltuqt,igltyqt,igqqsqtisltditqblhori ojhodqgm
V di.lhoidxisxs elthwqistxc oghdhqr,ilogileeidt djihristxcx ogmiNhoghou
cltigxnoictxbinhdjhoidjqi.qtkijqltdixcidjhrirshyqgiJxdqeigqiAe okinjqtq
nqijqtqirdlog—jxnq.qtiutlogiloginxogqtc e,ioxniz hdihd;—logidlyqikx t
nlk,ikqioxveqt,irlggqtirx er,idxidjxrqi.lrdiTxbloijleerixciDjqtbqr;
njqtqicltivqoqldjidjqiclodlrdhaidxnqtrixciblo’ri ssqtiqltdj,ijhritxxd
xciutlogq t,ijhrinjxeqilnc eiqrrqoaqirhdrihoivqltgqgirdldq;iloilodhz q
v thqgivqoqldjilodhz hdhqr,ilogidjtxoqgixoidxtrxqr!iRxinhdjilivtxyqo
djtxoq,idjqiutqldiuxgribxayidjldialsdh.qiyhou;irxiehyqiliAltkldhg,ijq
sldhqodirhdr,i sjxeghouixoijhrictxwqoivtxnidjqisheqgiqodlveld tqrixc
luqrmiNhogikqigxnoidjqtq,ikqistx gqt,irlggqtirx er!iz qrdhxoidjld
stx g,irlgiyhou!iLiclbhekiehyqoqrr!ilkq,ijqighgivquqdikq,ikqikx ou
qpheqgitxkledhqr;ilogictxbikx tiuthbirhtqixoekinheeidjqixeg
Rdldq-rqatqdiaxbqm

Oxn,ihoijhrijqltd,iLjlvijlgirxbqiuehbsrqixcidjhr,iolbqek:ileeibkibqlor
ltqirloq,ibkibxdh.qilogibkixvfqadiblgmiKqdinhdjx disxnqtidxiyhee,ixt
ajlouq,ixtirj oidjqiclad;ijqiehyqnhrqiyoqnidjldidxibloyhogijqighgiexou
ghrrqbveq;ihoirxbqirxtd,ighgirdheemiV didjldidjhouixcijhrighrrqbvehou
nlrixoekir vfqadidxijhrisqtaqsdhvhehdk,ioxdidxijhrinheeigqdqtbholdqm
Oq.qtdjqeqrr,irxinqeeighgijqir aaqqgihoidjldighrrqbvehou,idjldinjqo
nhdjih.xtkiequijqirdqssqgilrjxtqildielrd,ioxiOlod ayqdqtidjx ujdijhb
xdjqtnhrqidjloiv diold tleekiuthq.qg,ilogidjldidxidjqiz hay,inhdjidjq
dqtthveqialr ledkinjhajijlgix.qtdlyqoijhbm

Djqitqsxtdixcijhri ogqohlveqigqehth bildirqlinlriehyqnhrqisxs eltek
lrathvqgidxiliyhogtqgial rqmiLogirxidxx,ileeidjqilggqgibxxghoqrrinjhaj
lenlkrilcdqtnltgr,idxidjqi.qtkiglkixcirlhehouihoidjqiSqz xgixoidjq
stqrqodi.xkluq,irldivtxxghouixoijhrivtxnmiOxtihrihdirxi.qtki oehyqek,
djldicltictxbighrdt rdhouijhrichdoqrricxtiloxdjqtinjlehoui.xkluq,ixo
laax odixcir ajigltyirkbsdxbr,idjqialea eldhouisqxseqixcidjldist gqod
hreqinqtqihoaehoqgidxijltvxtidjqiaxoaqhd,idjldicxtidjxrqi.qtkitqlrxor
jqinlrileeidjqivqddqtiz lehchqgilogirqdixoiqguq,icxtilis tr hdirxic ee
xcitluqiloginhegoqrrilridjqivexxgkij odixcinjleqrmiUolnqginhdjhoilog
raxtajqginhdjx d,inhdjidjqihochpqg,i otqeqodhouiclourixcirxbqihoa tlveq
hgql;ir ajiloixoq,iax egijqivqicx og,inx egirqqbidjqi.qtkibloidxigltd
jhrihtxoilogiehcdijhrieloaqilulhordidjqibxrdilssleehouixcileeivt dqrm
Xt,ihcicxtilokitqlrxoidjx ujdidxivqiaxtsxtqleekihoalslahdldqgicxtidjld,
kqdir ajiloixoqinx egirqqbir sqteldh.qekiaxbsqdqodidxiajqqtilogijxneixo
jhri ogqtehouridxidjqilddlaymiV divqileeidjhrilrihdiblk,iaqtdlhoihdihr,
djldinhdjidjqiblgirqatqdixcijhri olvldqgitluqivxedqgi silogiyqkqgiho
jhb,iLjlvijlgis tsxrqekirlheqgi sxoidjqistqrqodi.xkluqinhdjidjqixoq
xoekilogilee-qoutxrrhouixvfqadixcij odhouidjqiNjhdqiNjleqmiJlgilokixoq
xcijhrixegilaz lhodloaqrixoirjxtqiv dijlecigtqlbqgixcinjldinlrie tyhou
hoijhbidjqo,ijxnirxxoinx egidjqhtilujlrdilogithujdqx rirx erijl.q
ntqoajqgidjqirjhsictxbir ajilichqoghrjiblo!iDjqkinqtqivqodixo
stxchdlveqiat hrqr,idjqistxchdidxivqiax odqgigxnoihoigxeeltrictxbidjq
bhodmiJqinlrihodqodixoiloil glahx r,ihbbhdhulveq,ilogir sqtold tle
tq.qouqm

Jqtq,idjqo,inlridjhriutqk-jqlgqg,i ouxgekixegiblo,iajlrhouinhdjia trqr
liFxv’rinjleqitx ogidjqinxteg,ildidjqijqlgixciliatqn,idxx,iajhqcekiblgq
 sixcibxoutqeitqoqulgqr,ilogialrdlnlkr,ilogialoohvler—bxtleekiqocqqveqg
lerx,ivkidjqihoaxbsqdqoaqixcibqtqi olhgqgi.htd qixtithujd-bhogqgoqrriho
Rdltv ay,idjqiho. eoqtlveqifxeehdkixcihoghccqtqoaqilogitqayeqrroqrriho
Rd vv,ilogidjqisqt.lghouibqghxathdkihoiCelrymiR ajiliatqn,irx
xcchaqtqg,irqqbqgirsqahleekishayqgilogislayqgivkirxbqihocqtoleicldlehdk
dxijqesijhbidxijhribxoxblohlaitq.qouqmiJxnihdinlridjldidjqkirx
lvx oghouekitqrsxogqgidxidjqixegiblo’rihtq—vkinjldiq.heibluhaidjqht
rx erinqtqisxrrqrrqg,idjldildidhbqrijhrijldqirqqbqgilebxrdidjqhtr;idjq
NjhdqiNjleqilrib ajidjqhtihor ccqtlveqicxqilrijhr;ijxnileeidjhrialbqidx
vq—njldidjqiNjhdqiNjleqinlridxidjqb,ixtijxnidxidjqhti oaxorahx r
 ogqtrdloghour,ilerx,ihoirxbqighb,i or rsqadqginlk,ijqibhujdijl.q
rqqbqgidjqiuehghouiutqldigqbxoixcidjqirqlrixciehcq,—leeidjhridx
qpselho,inx egivqidxigh.qigqqsqtidjloiHrjblqeialoiuxmiDjqir vdqttloqlo
bhoqtidjldinxtyrihoi rilee,ijxnialoixoqidqeeinjhdjqtieqlgrijhrirjlcdivk
djqiq.qtirjhcdhou,ib cceqgirx ogixcijhrishay?iNjxigxqrioxdicqqeidjq
httqrhrdhveqiltbigtlu?iNjldiryhccihoidxnixcilirq.qodk-cx tialoirdlog
rdhee?iCxtixoq,iHiul.qibkrqeci sidxidjqilvlogxobqodixcidjqidhbqilogidjq
selaq;iv dinjheqikqdileeil-t rjidxiqoax odqtidjqinjleq,iax egirqq
ol ujdihoidjldivt dqiv didjqigqlgehqrdiheem


AJLSDQTi42miDjqiNjhdqoqrrixcidjqiNjleqm

NjldidjqinjhdqinjleqinlridxiLjlv,ijlrivqqoijhodqg;injld,ildidhbqr,ijq
nlridxibq,ilrikqditqblhori orlhgm

Lrhgqictxbidjxrqibxtqixv.hx riaxorhgqtldhxoridx ajhouiBxvkiGhay,injhaj
ax egioxdiv dixaalrhxoleekilnlyqoihoilokiblo’rirx eirxbqileltb,idjqtq
nlriloxdjqtidjx ujd,ixtitldjqti.lu q,iolbqeqrrijxttxtiaxoaqtohouijhb,
njhajildidhbqrivkihdrihodqorhdkiaxbseqdqekix.qtsxnqtqgileeidjqitqrd;
logikqdirxibkrdhaleiloginqeeiohujihoqcclveqinlrihd,idjldiHilebxrd
gqrslhtixcis ddhouihdihoiliaxbstqjqorhveqicxtbmiHdinlridjqinjhdqoqrrixc
djqinjleqidjldilvx.qileeidjhourilssleeqgibqmiV dijxnialoiHijxsqidx
qpselhoibkrqecijqtq;ilogikqd,ihoirxbqighb,itlogxbinlk,iqpselhoibkrqeciH
b rd,iqerqileeidjqrqiajlsdqtribhujdivqiol ujdm

Djx ujihoiblokiold tleixvfqadr,injhdqoqrritqchohouekiqojloaqrivql dk,
lrihcihbsltdhouirxbqirsqahlei.htd qixcihdrixno,ilrihoibltveqr,
flsxohalr,ilogisqlter;ilogidjx uji.lthx rioldhxorijl.qihoirxbqinlk
tqaxuohrqgiliaqtdlhoitxkleistqqbhoqoaqihoidjhrij q;iq.qoidjqivltvltha,
utlogixegiyhourixciSqu iselahouidjqidhdeqi“ExtgixcidjqiNjhdqiQeqsjlodr”
lvx.qileeidjqhtixdjqtibluohexz qodilrathsdhxorixcigxbhohxo;ilogidjq
bxgqtoiyhourixciRhlbi oc tehouidjqirlbqiroxn-njhdqiz lgt sqgihoidjq
txkleirdlogltg;ilogidjqiJlox.qthloiceluivqlthouidjqixoqichu tqixcil
roxn-njhdqiajltuqt;ilogidjqiutqldiL rdthloiQbshtq,iAærlthlo,ijqhtidx
x.qtextghouiTxbq,ijl.houicxtidjqihbsqthleiaxex tidjqirlbqihbsqthleij q;
logidjx ujidjhristq-qbhoqoaqihoihdilssehqridxidjqij bloitlaqihdrqec,
uh.houidjqinjhdqibloihgqleiblrdqtrjhsix.qtiq.qtkig rykidthvq;ilog
djx uj,ivqrhgqr,ileeidjhr,injhdqoqrrijlrivqqoiq.qoiblgqirhuohchalodixc
uelgoqrr,icxtilbxouidjqiTxblorilinjhdqirdxoqibltyqgilifxkc eiglk;ilog
djx ujihoixdjqtibxtdleirkbsldjhqrilogirkbvxehwhour,idjhrirlbqij qihr
blgqidjqiqbveqbixciblokidx ajhou,ioxveqidjhour—djqihooxaqoaqixcivthgqr,
djqivqohuohdkixciluq;idjx ujilbxouidjqiTqgiBqoixciLbqthalidjqiuh.houixc
djqinjhdqivqedixcinlbs binlridjqigqqsqrdiseqguqixcijxoxt;idjx ujiho
blokiaehbqr,injhdqoqrridkshchqridjqiblfqrdkixciF rdhaqihoidjqiqtbhoqixc
djqiF guq,ilogiaxodthv dqridxidjqiglhekirdldqixciyhourilogiz qqorigtlno
vkibhey-njhdqirdqqgr;idjx ujiq.qoihoidjqijhujqtibkrdqthqrixcidjqibxrd
l u rditqehuhxorihdijlrivqqoiblgqidjqirkbvxeixcidjqigh.hoqirsxdeqrroqrr
logisxnqt;ivkidjqiSqtrhloichtqinxtrjhssqtr,idjqinjhdqicxtyqgicelbq
vqhouijqegidjqijxehqrdixoidjqiledlt;ilogihoidjqiUtqqyibkdjxexuhqr,
UtqldiFx.qijhbrqecivqhouiblgqihoaltoldqihoiliroxn-njhdqiv ee;ilog
djx ujidxidjqioxveqiHtxz xhr,idjqibhgnhodqtirlathchaqixcidjqirlatqg
NjhdqiGxuinlrivkicltidjqijxehqrdicqrdh.leixcidjqhtidjqxexuk,idjld
rsxdeqrr,iclhdjc eiatqld tqivqhouijqegidjqis tqrdiqo.xkidjqkiax egirqog
dxidjqiUtqldiRshthdinhdjidjqiloo leidhghourixcidjqhtixnoichgqehdk;ilog
djx ujightqadekictxbidjqiEldhoinxtgicxtinjhdq,ileeiAjthrdhloisthqrdr
gqth.qidjqiolbqixcixoqisltdixcidjqhtirlatqgi.qrd tq,idjqilevixtid oha,
nxtoivqoqldjidjqialrrxay;ilogidjx ujilbxouidjqijxekisxbsrixcidjqiTxbhrj
clhdj,injhdqihrirsqahleekiqbsexkqgihoidjqiaqeqvtldhxoixcidjqiSlrrhxoixc
x tiExtg;idjx ujihoidjqi.hrhxoixciRdmiFxjo,injhdqitxvqriltqiuh.qoidx
djqitqgqqbqg,ilogidjqicx t-log-dnqodkiqegqtrirdlogiaexdjqgihoinjhdq
vqcxtqidjqiutqldinjhdqidjtxoq,ilogidjqiJxekiXoqidjldirhddqdjidjqtq
njhdqiehyqinxxe;ikqdicxtileeidjqrqilaa b eldqgilrrxahldhxor,inhdj
njldq.qtihrirnqqd,ilogijxoxtlveq,ilogir vehbq,idjqtqikqdie tyrilo
qe rh.qirxbqdjhouihoidjqihooqtbxrdihgqlixcidjhrij q,injhajirdthyqribxtq
xcislohaidxidjqirx eidjloidjlditqgoqrrinjhajilccthujdrihoivexxgm

Djhriqe rh.qiz lehdkihdihr,injhajial rqridjqidjx ujdixcinjhdqoqrr,injqo
gh.xtaqgictxbibxtqiyhogekilrrxahldhxor,ilogiax seqginhdjilokixvfqad
dqtthveqihoihdrqec,idxijqhujdqoidjldidqttxtidxidjqic tdjqrdivx ogrm
Nhdoqrridjqinjhdqivqltixcidjqisxeqr,ilogidjqinjhdqirjltyixcidjq
dtxshar;injldiv didjqhtirbxxdj,icelykinjhdqoqrriblyqridjqbidjq
dtloraqogqodijxttxtridjqkiltq?iDjldiujlrdekinjhdqoqrrihdihrinjhaj
hbsltdrir ajiloilvjxttqodibhegoqrr,iq.qoibxtqiexldjrxbqidjloidqtthcha,
dxidjqig bviuexldhouixcidjqhtilrsqadmiRxidjldioxdidjqichqtaq-clouqg
dhuqtihoijhrijqtleghaiaxldialoirxirdluuqtiax tluqilridjqinjhdq-rjtx gqg
vqltixtirjltym*

*NhdjitqcqtqoaqidxidjqiSxeltivqlt,ihdiblkisxrrhvekivqi tuqgivkijhbinjx
nx egiclhoiuxirdheeigqqsqtihodxidjhriblddqt,idjldihdihrioxdidjq
njhdqoqrr,irqsltldqekitqultgqg,injhajijqhujdqoridjqihodxeqtlveq
jhgqx roqrrixcidjldivt dq;icxt,ilolekrqg,idjldijqhujdqoqgijhgqx roqrr,
hdibhujdivqirlhg,ixoekithrqrictxbidjqiahta brdloaq,idjldidjq
httqrsxorhveqicqtxahx roqrrixcidjqiatqld tqirdlogriho.qrdqgihoidjq
ceqqaqixciaqeqrdhleihooxaqoaqilogiex.q;ilogijqoaq,ivkivthouhouidxuqdjqt
dnxir ajixssxrhdqiqbxdhxorihoix tibhogr,idjqiSxeltivqlticthujdqori r
nhdjirxi oold tleiliaxodtlrdmiV diq.qoilrr bhouileeidjhridxivqidt q;
kqd,inqtqihdioxdicxtidjqinjhdqoqrr,ikx inx egioxdijl.qidjldihodqorhchqg
dqttxtm

Lricxtidjqinjhdqirjlty,idjqinjhdqiuehghouiujxrdehoqrrixcitqsxrqihoidjld
atqld tq,injqoivqjqegihoijhrixtgholtkibxxgr,irdtlouqekidleehqrinhdjidjq
rlbqiz lehdkihoidjqiSxeltiz lgt sqgmiDjhrisqa ehlthdkihribxrdi.h.hgek
jhdivkidjqiCtqoajihoidjqiolbqidjqkivqrdxni sxoidjldichrjmiDjqiTxbhrj
blrricxtidjqigqlgivquhorinhdji“Tqz hqbiqdqtolb”i(qdqtoleitqrd),injqoaq
_Tqz hqb_igqoxbholdhouidjqiblrrihdrqec,ilogilokixdjqtic oqtleib rham
Oxn,ihoilee rhxoidxidjqinjhdq,irheqodirdheeoqrrixcigqldjihoidjhrirjlty,
logidjqibhegigqlgehoqrrixcijhrijlvhdr,idjqiCtqoajialeeijhbi_Tqz ho_m

Vqdjhoyidjqqixcidjqilevldtxrr,injqoaqiaxbqidjxrqiaex grixcirshthd le
nxogqtbqodilogisleqigtqlg,ihoinjhajidjldinjhdqisjlodxbirlherihoilee
hbluholdhxor?iOxdiAxeqthguqichtrdidjtqnidjldirsqee;iv diUxg’riutqld,
 ocelddqthouiel tqldq,iOld tqm*

*HitqbqbvqtidjqichtrdilevldtxrriHiq.qtirlnmiHdinlrig thouilistxexouqg
uleq,ihoinldqtrijltgi sxoidjqiLodltadhairqlrmiCtxbibkicxtqoxxoinldaj
vqexn,iHilraqogqgidxidjqix.qtaex gqgigqay;ilogidjqtq,iglrjqgi sxoidjq
blhoijldajqr,iHirlnilitqule,icqldjqtkidjhouixci orsxddqginjhdqoqrr,ilog
nhdjilijxxyqg,iTxbloivheeir vehbqmiLdihodqt.ler,ihdiltajqgicxtdjihdr
.lrdiltajlouqeinhour,ilrihcidxiqbvtlaqirxbqijxekiltymiNxogtx r
ce ddqthourilogidjtxvvhourirjxxyihdmiDjx ujivxgheki ojltbqg,ihdi ddqtqg
athqr,ilrirxbqiyhou’riujxrdihoir sqtold tleighrdtqrrmiDjtx ujihdr
hoqpstqrrhveq,irdtlouqiqkqr,ibqdjx ujdiHisqqsqgidxirqatqdrinjhajidxxy
jxegixciUxgmiLriLvtljlbivqcxtqidjqilouqer,iHivxnqgibkrqec;idjqinjhdq
djhouinlrirxinjhdq,ihdrinhourirxinhgq,ilogihoidjxrqicxtiq.qtiqpheqg
nldqtr,iHijlgiexrdidjqibhrqtlveqinltshouibqbxthqrixcidtlghdhxorilogixc
dxnormiExouiHiulwqgildidjldistxghukixcise bluqmiHialooxdidqee,ialoixoek
jhod,idjqidjhouridjldigltdqgidjtx ujibqidjqomiV dildielrdiHilnxyq;ilog
d tohou,ilryqgilirlhextinjldivhtginlridjhrmiLiuxoqk,ijqitqsehqgmiUxoqk!
oq.qtijlgijqltgidjldiolbqivqcxtq;ihrihdiaxoaqh.lveqidjldidjhriuexthx r
djhouihri ddqteki oyoxnoidxibqoilrjxtq!ioq.qt!iV dirxbqidhbqilcdqt,iH
eqltoqgidjldiuxoqkinlrirxbqirqlblo’riolbqicxtilevldtxrrmiRxidjldivkiox
sxrrhvhehdkiax egiAxeqthguq’rinhegiTjkbqijl.qijlgil ujdidxigxinhdj
djxrqibkrdhaleihbstqrrhxorinjhajinqtqibhoq,injqoiHirlnidjldivhtgi sxo
x tigqaymiCxtioqhdjqtijlgiHidjqoitqlgidjqiTjkbq,ioxtiyoqnidjqivhtgidx
vqiloilevldtxrrmiKqd,ihoirlkhouidjhr,iHigxiv dihoghtqadekiv tohrjil
ehddeqivthujdqtidjqioxveqibqthdixcidjqisxqbilogidjqisxqdm

Hilrrqtd,idjqo,idjldihoidjqinxogtx rivxghekinjhdqoqrrixcidjqivhtg
ajhqcekie tyridjqirqatqdixcidjqirsqee;ilidt djidjqibxtqiq.hoaqgiho
djhr,idjldivkilirxeqahrbixcidqtbridjqtqiltqivhtgrialeeqgiutqk
levldtxrrqr;ilogidjqrqiHijl.qictqz qodekirqqo,iv dioq.qtinhdjir aj
qbxdhxorilrinjqoiHivqjqegidjqiLodltadhaicxnem

V dijxnijlgidjqibkrdhaidjhouivqqoial ujd?iNjhrsqtihdioxd,ilogiHinhee
dqee;inhdjilidtqlajqtx rijxxyilogiehoq,ilridjqicxneicexldqgixoidjqirqlm
LdielrdidjqiAlsdlhoiblgqilisxrdbloixcihd;idkhouilieqddqtqg,ieqldjqto
dleekitx ogihdrioqay,inhdjidjqirjhs’ridhbqilogiselaq;ilogidjqoieqddhou
hdiqralsqmiV diHigx vdioxd,idjldieqldjqtoidleek,ibqlodicxtiblo,inlr
dlyqoixccihoiJql.qo,injqoidjqinjhdqicxneiceqnidxifxhoidjqinhou-cxeghou,
djqiho.xyhou,ilogilgxthouiajqt vhb!

Bxrdiclbx rihoix tiNqrdqtoiloolerilogiHoghloidtlghdhxorihridjldixcidjq
NjhdqiRdqqgixcidjqiStlhthqr;ilibluohchaqodibhey-njhdqiajltuqt,
eltuq-qkqg,irblee-jqlgqg,ive cc-ajqrdqg,iloginhdjidjqighuohdkixcil
djx rlogibxoltajrihoijhriexcdk,ix.qtraxtohouialtthluqmiJqinlridjq
qeqadqgiPqtpqrixci.lrdijqtgrixcinhegijxtrqr,injxrqislrd tqrihoidjxrq
glkrinqtqixoekicqoaqgivkidjqiTxaykiBx odlhorilogidjqiLeequjlohqrmiLd
djqhticelbhouijqlgijqinqrdnltgidtxxsqgihdiehyqidjldiajxrqoirdltinjhaj
q.qtkiq.qohouieqlgrixoidjqijxrdrixciehujdmiDjqicelrjhouialralgqixcijhr
bloq,idjqia t.houiaxbqdixcijhridlhe,iho.qrdqgijhbinhdjijx rhouribxtq
tqrseqogqodidjloiuxegilogirhe.qt-vqldqtriax egijl.qic tohrjqgijhbmiL
bxrdihbsqthleilogiltajlouqehaleilsslthdhxoixcidjldi ocleeqo,inqrdqto
nxteg,injhajidxidjqiqkqrixcidjqixegidtlssqtrilogij odqtritq.h.qgidjq
uexthqrixcidjxrqisthbq.leidhbqrinjqoiLglbinleyqgiblfqrdhailriliuxg,
ve cc-vtxnqgilogicqlteqrrilridjhribhujdkirdqqgmiNjqdjqtibltajhouilbhg
jhrilhgqrilogibltrjlerihoidjqi.loixciax odeqrriaxjxtdridjldiqogeqrrek
rdtqlbqgihdix.qtidjqiselhor,iehyqiloiXjhx;ixtinjqdjqtinhdjijhr
ahta blbvhqodir vfqadrivtxnrhouileeiltx ogildidjqijxthwxo,idjqiNjhdq
Rdqqgiuleexshouekitq.hqnqgidjqbinhdjinltbioxrdtheritqggqohouidjtx uj
jhriaxxeibheyhoqrr;ihoinjldq.qtilrsqadijqistqrqodqgijhbrqec,ilenlkridx
djqivtl.qrdiHoghlorijqinlridjqixvfqadixcidtqbvehouitq.qtqoaqilogilnqm
Oxtialoihdivqiz qrdhxoqgictxbinjldirdlogrixoiequqogltkitqaxtgixcidjhr
oxveqijxtrq,idjldihdinlrijhrirshthd leinjhdqoqrriajhqcek,injhajirx
aexdjqgijhbinhdjigh.hoqoqrr;ilogidjldidjhrigh.hoqoqrrijlgidjldihoihd
njhaj,idjx ujiaxbbloghouinxtrjhs,ildidjqirlbqidhbqiqocxtaqgiliaqtdlho
olbqeqrridqttxtm

V didjqtqiltqixdjqtihordloaqrinjqtqidjhrinjhdqoqrriexrqrileeidjld
laaqrrxtkilogirdtlouqiuextkinjhajiho.qrdrihdihoidjqiNjhdqiRdqqgilog
Levldtxrrm

NjldihrihdidjldihoidjqiLevhoxibloirxisqa ehltekitqsqerilogixcdqoirjxayr
djqiqkq,ilridjldirxbqdhbqrijqihriexldjqgivkijhrixnoiyhdjilogiyho!iHdihr
djldinjhdqoqrrinjhajiho.qrdrijhb,ilidjhouiqpstqrrqgivkidjqiolbqijq
vqltrmiDjqiLevhoxihrilrinqeeiblgqilrixdjqtibqo—jlrioxir vrdlodh.q
gqcxtbhdk—logikqdidjhribqtqilrsqadixcilee-sqt.lghouinjhdqoqrriblyqrijhb
bxtqirdtlouqekijhgqx ridjloidjqi uehqrdilvxtdhxomiNjkirjx egidjhrivq
rx?

Oxt,ihoiz hdqixdjqtilrsqadr,igxqriOld tqihoijqtieqlrdisleslveqiv dioxd
djqieqrriblehahx riluqoahqr,iclheidxiqoehrdilbxouijqticxtaqridjhr
atxnohouilddthv dqixcidjqidqtthveqmiCtxbihdriroxnkilrsqad,idjq
ul odeqdqgiujxrdixcidjqiRx djqtoiRqlrijlrivqqoigqoxbholdqgidjqiNjhdq
Rz leemiOxt,ihoirxbqijhrdxthaihordloaqr,ijlridjqiltdixcij bloiblehaq
xbhddqgirxisxdqodiloil phehltkmiJxninhegekihdijqhujdqoridjqiqccqadixc
djldislrrluqihoiCtxhrrltd,injqo,iblryqgihoidjqiroxnkirkbvxeixcidjqht
cladhxo,idjqigqrsqtldqiNjhdqiJxxgrixciUjqodib tgqtidjqhtivlhehccihoidjq
bltyqd-selaq!

Oxt,ihoirxbqidjhour,igxqridjqiaxbbxo,ijqtqghdltkiqpsqthqoaqixcilee
bloyhogiclheidxivqltinhdoqrridxidjqir sqtold tlehrbixcidjhrij qmiHd
alooxdinqeeivqigx vdqg,idjldidjqixoqi.hrhveqiz lehdkihoidjqilrsqadixc
djqigqlginjhajibxrdilssleridjqiulwqt,ihridjqibltveqisleextiehouqthou
djqtq;ilrihcihogqqgidjldisleextinqtqilrib ajiehyqidjqivlguqixc
axordqtoldhxoihoidjqixdjqtinxteg,ilrixcibxtdleidtqshgldhxoijqtqmiLog
ctxbidjldisleextixcidjqigqlg,inqivxttxnidjqiqpstqrrh.qij qixcidjq
rjtx gihoinjhajinqintlsidjqbmiOxtiq.qoihoix tir sqtrdhdhxorigxinqiclhe
dxidjtxnidjqirlbqiroxnkiblodeqitx ogix tisjlodxbr;ileeiujxrdrithrhouiho
libhey-njhdqicxu—Kql,injheqidjqrqidqttxtrirqhwqi r,ieqdi rilgg,idjld
q.qoidjqiyhouixcidqttxtr,injqoisqtrxohchqgivkidjqiq.louqehrd,ithgqrixo
jhrisleehgijxtrqm

Djqtqcxtq,ihoijhrixdjqtibxxgr,irkbvxehwqinjldq.qtiutlogixtiutlahx r
djhouijqinheeivkinjhdqoqrr,ioxibloialoigqokidjldihoihdristxcx ogqrd
hgqlehwqgirhuohchaloaqihdialeeri silisqa ehltilsslthdhxoidxidjqirx em

V didjx ujinhdjx dighrrqodidjhrisxhodivqichpqg,ijxnihribxtdleibloidx
laax odicxtihd?iDxilolekrqihd,inx egirqqbihbsxrrhveqmiAloinq,idjqo,ivk
djqiahdldhxoixcirxbqixcidjxrqihordloaqrinjqtqhoidjhridjhouixc
njhdqoqrr—djx ujicxtidjqidhbqiqhdjqtinjxeekixtihoiutqldisltdirdthssqg
xcileeightqadilrrxahldhxorialea eldqgidxihbsltdidxihdil ujdicqltc e,
v dioq.qtdjqeqrr,ihricx ogidxiqpqtdix.qti ridjqirlbqirxtaqtk,ijxnq.qt
bxghchqg;—aloinqidj rijxsqidxiehujdi sxoirxbqiajloaqiae qidxiaxog adi r
dxidjqijhggqoial rqinqirqqy?

Eqdi ridtkmiV dihoiliblddqtiehyqidjhr,ir vdeqdkilssqleridxir vdeqdk,
loginhdjx dihbluholdhxoioxibloialoicxeexniloxdjqtihodxidjqrqijleermiLog
djx uj,igx vdeqrr,irxbqildieqlrdixcidjqihbluholdh.qihbstqrrhxorilvx d
dxivqistqrqodqgiblkijl.qivqqoirjltqgivkibxrdibqo,ikqdicqnisqtjlsrinqtq
qodhtqekiaxorahx rixcidjqbildidjqidhbq,ilogidjqtqcxtqiblkioxdivqilveq
dxitqaleeidjqbioxnm

Njkidxidjqibloixci od dxtqgihgqlehdk,injxijlssqoridxivqiv diexxrqek
laz lhodqginhdjidjqisqa ehltiajltladqtixcidjqiglk,igxqridjqivltq
bqodhxoixciNjhdr odhgqibltrjleihoidjqicloakir ajiexou,igtqltk,
rsqqajeqrristxaqrrhxorixcirexn-slahouisheuthbr,igxno-alrdilogijxxgqg
nhdjioqn-cleeqoiroxn?iXt,idxidjqi otqlg,i orxsjhrdhaldqgiStxdqrdlodixc
djqiBhggeqiLbqthaloiRdldqr,injkigxqridjqislrrhouibqodhxoixciliNjhdq
CthltixtiliNjhdqiO o,iq.xyqir ajiloiqkqeqrrirdld qihoidjqirx e?

Xtinjldihridjqtqilsltdictxbidjqidtlghdhxorixcig ouqxoqginltthxtrilog
yhouri(njhajinheeioxdinjxeekilaax odicxtihd)idjldiblyqridjqiNjhdqiDxnqt
xciExogxoidqeeirxib ajibxtqirdtxouekixoidjqihbluholdhxoixcilo
 odtl.qeeqgiLbqthalo,idjloidjxrqixdjqtirdxthqgirdt ad tqr,ihdr
oqhujvxtr—djqiVknltgiDxnqt,ixtiq.qoidjqiVexxgk?iLogidjxrqir vehbqt
dxnqtr,idjqiNjhdqiBx odlhorixciOqniJlbsrjhtq,injqoaq,ihoisqa ehlt
bxxgr,iaxbqridjldiuhulodhaiujxrdehoqrrix.qtidjqirx eildidjqivltq
bqodhxoixcidjldiolbq,injheqidjqidjx ujdixci.htuhohl’riVe qiThguqihr
c eeixcilirxcd,igqnk,ighrdlodigtqlbhoqrr?iXtinjk,ihttqrsqadh.qixcilee
eldhd gqrilogiexouhd gqr,igxqridjqiolbqixcidjqiNjhdqiRqliqpqtdir ajil
rsqadtleoqrrix.qtidjqicloak,injheqidjldixcidjqiKqeexniRqlie eeri rinhdj
bxtdleidjx ujdrixciexouielaz qtqgibhegilcdqtoxxorixoidjqinl.qr,
cxeexnqgivkidjqiul ghqrdilogikqdireqqshqrdixcir orqdr?iXt,idxiajxxrqil
njxeeki or vrdlodhleihordloaq,is tqekilggtqrrqgidxidjqicloak,injk,iho
tqlghouidjqixegiclhtkidleqrixciAqodtleiQ txsq,igxqri“djqidleeisleqiblo”
xcidjqiJltdwicxtqrdr,injxrqiajlouqeqrrisleexti ot rdehouekiuehgqr
djtx ujidjqiutqqoixcidjqiutx.qr—njkihridjhrisjlodxbibxtqidqtthveqidjlo
leeidjqinjxxshouihbsrixcidjqiVexayrv tu?

Oxtihrihd,iledxuqdjqt,idjqitqbqbvtloaqixcijqtialdjqgtle-dxssehou
qltdjz lyqr;ioxtidjqirdlbsqgxqrixcijqtictlodhairqlr;ioxtidjq
dqlteqrroqrrixcilthgiryhqridjldioq.qtitlho;ioxtidjqirhujdixcijqtinhgq
chqegixcieqlohouirshtqr,intqoajqgiaxsq-rdxoqr,ilogiatxrrqrileeilgtxxs
(ehyqialodqgikltgrixciloajxtqgiceqqdr);ilogijqtir v tvloil.qo qrixc
jx rq-nleeriekhouix.qti sxoiqlajixdjqt,ilrilidxrrqgislayixcialtgr;—hd
hrioxdidjqrqidjhourilexoqinjhajiblyqidqlteqrriEhbl,idjqirdtlouqrd,
rlggqrdiahdkidjx ialo’rdirqqmiCxtiEhblijlridlyqoidjqinjhdqi.qhe;ilog
djqtqihrilijhujqtijxttxtihoidjhrinjhdqoqrrixcijqtinxqmiXegilriShwlttx,
djhrinjhdqoqrriyqqsrijqtit horicxtiq.qtioqn;ilgbhdrioxdidjqiajqqtc e
utqqooqrrixciaxbseqdqigqalk;irstqlgrix.qtijqtivtxyqoitlbsltdridjqithuhg
sleextixciloilsxseqpkidjldichpqrihdrixnoighrdxtdhxorm

Hiyoxnidjld,idxidjqiaxbbxoilsstqjqorhxo,idjhrisjqoxbqoxoixcinjhdqoqrr
hrioxdiaxocqrrqgidxivqidjqisthbqiluqodihoiqpluuqtldhouidjqidqttxtixc
xvfqadrixdjqtnhrqidqtthveq;ioxtidxidjqi ohbluholdh.qibhogihridjqtq
l ujdixcidqttxtihoidjxrqilssqltloaqrinjxrqilnc eoqrridxiloxdjqtibhog
lebxrdirxeqekiaxorhrdrihoidjhrixoqisjqoxbqoxo,iqrsqahleekinjqo
qpjhvhdqgi ogqtilokicxtbildileeilsstxlajhouidxib dqoqrrixt
 oh.qtrlehdkmiNjldiHibqloivkidjqrqidnxirdldqbqodriblkisqtjlsrivq
tqrsqadh.qekiqe ahgldqgivkidjqicxeexnhouiqplbseqrm

Chtrd:iDjqiblthoqt,injqoigtlnhouiohujidjqiaxlrdrixcicxtqhuoielogr,ihc
vkiohujdijqijqltidjqitxltixcivtqlyqtr,irdltdridxi.huheloaq,ilogicqqer
f rdiqox ujixcidtqshgldhxoidxirjltsqoileeijhricla edhqr;iv di ogqt
stqahrqekirhbheltiahta brdloaqr,ieqdijhbivqialeeqgictxbijhrijlbbxayidx
.hqnijhrirjhsirlhehouidjtx ujilibhgohujdirqlixcibheykinjhdqoqrr—lrihc
ctxbiqoahtaehouijqlgelogrirjxlerixciaxbvqginjhdqivqltrinqtqirnhbbhou
tx ogijhb,idjqoijqicqqerilirheqod,ir sqtrdhdhx rigtqlg;idjqirjtx gqg
sjlodxbixcidjqinjhdqoqginldqtrihrijxtthveqidxijhbilrilitqleiujxrd;iho
.lhoidjqieqlgilrr tqrijhbijqihrirdheeixccirx oghour;ijqltdilogijqeb
djqkivxdjiuxigxno;ijqioq.qtitqrdridheeive qinldqtihri ogqtijhbilulhom
Kqdinjqtqihridjqiblthoqtinjxinheeidqeeidjqq,i“Rht,ihdinlrioxdirxib aj
djqicqltixcirdthyhouijhggqoitxayr,ilridjqicqltixcidjldijhgqx r
njhdqoqrridjldirxirdhttqgibq?”

Rqaxog:iDxidjqioldh.qiHoghloixciSqt ,idjqiaxodho leirhujdixcidjq
roxn-jxngljqgiLogqriaxo.qkriol ujdixcigtqlg,iqpaqsd,isqtjlsr,ihoidjq
bqtqicloakhouixcidjqiqdqtoleictxrdqgigqrxeldqoqrritqhuohouildir aji.lrd
ledhd gqr,ilogidjqiold tleiaxoaqhdixcinjldilicqltc eoqrrihdinx egivqidx
exrqixoqrqecihoir ajihoj bloirxehd gqrmiB ajidjqirlbqihrihdinhdjidjq
vlaynxxgrbloixcidjqiNqrd,injxinhdjiaxbsltldh.qihoghccqtqoaqi.hqnrilo
 ovx ogqgistlhthqirjqqdqginhdjigth.qoiroxn,ioxirjlgxnixcidtqqixtidnhu
dxivtqlyidjqichpqgidtloaqixcinjhdqoqrrmiOxdirxidjqirlhext,ivqjxeghou
djqiraqoqtkixcidjqiLodltadhairqlr;injqtqildidhbqr,ivkirxbqihocqtole
dthayixciequqtgqblhoihoidjqisxnqtrixcictxrdilogilht,ijq,irjh.qthouilog
jlecirjhsntqayqg,ihordqlgixcitlhovxnrirsqlyhouijxsqilogirxelaqidxijhr
bhrqtk,i.hqnrinjldirqqbrilivx ogeqrriaj tajkltgiuthoohoui sxoijhbinhdj
hdrieqloihaqibxo bqodrilogirsehodqtqgiatxrrqrm

V didjx irlkqrd,ibqdjhoyridjldinjhdq-eqlgiajlsdqtilvx dinjhdqoqrrihr
v dilinjhdqiceluij ouix dictxbiliatl.qoirx e;idjx ir ttqogqtqrdidxil
jksx,iHrjblqem

Dqeeibq,injkidjhrirdtxouikx ouiaxed,icxleqgihoirxbqisqlaqc ei.leeqkixc
.qtbxod,icltitqbx.qgictxbileeivqlrdrixcistqk—njkihrihdidjldi sxoidjq
r oohqrdiglk,ihcikx iv dirjlyqilictqrjiv cclexitxvqivqjhogijhb,irxidjld
jqialooxdiq.qoirqqihd,iv dixoekirbqeerihdrinhegilohbleib ryhoqrr—njk
nheeijqirdltd,iroxtd,iloginhdjiv trdhouiqkqrislnidjqiutx ogiho
sjtqorhqrixcilccthujd?iDjqtqihrioxitqbqbvtloaqihoijhbixcilokiuxthourixc
nhegiatqld tqrihoijhriutqqoioxtdjqtoijxbq,irxidjldidjqirdtlouq
b ryhoqrrijqirbqeerialooxditqaleeidxijhbilokdjhouilrrxahldqginhdjidjq
qpsqthqoaqixcicxtbqtisqther;icxtinjldiyoxnrijq,idjhriOqniQouelogiaxed,
xcidjqivelayivhrxorixcighrdlodiXtquxo?

Ox:iv dijqtqidjx ivqjxegqrdiq.qoihoilig bvivt dq,idjqihordhoadixcidjq
yoxneqguqixcidjqigqbxohrbihoidjqinxtegmiDjx ujidjx rlogrixcibheqrictxb
Xtquxo,irdheeinjqoijqirbqeeridjldirl.luqib ry,idjqitqoghou,iuxthou
vhrxoijqtgriltqilristqrqodilridxidjqigqrqtdqginhegicxleixcidjq
stlhthqr,injhajidjhrihordlodidjqkiblkivqidtlbsehouihodxig rdm

Dj r,idjqo,idjqib cceqgitxeehourixcilibheykirql;idjqiveqlyit rdehourixc
djqicqrdxxoqgictxrdrixcibx odlhor;idjqigqrxeldqirjhcdhourixcidjq
nhogtxnqgiroxnrixcistlhthqr;ileeidjqrq,idxiHrjblqe,iltqilridjqirjlyhou
xcidjldiv cclexitxvqidxidjqicthujdqoqgiaxed!

Djx ujioqhdjqtiyoxnrinjqtqiehqidjqiolbqeqrridjhourixcinjhajidjqibkrdha
rhuoiuh.qricxtdjir ajijhodr;ikqdinhdjibq,ilrinhdjidjqiaxed,irxbqnjqtq
djxrqidjhourib rdiqphrdmiDjx ujihoiblokixcihdrilrsqadridjhri.hrhveq
nxtegirqqbricxtbqgihoiex.q,idjqiho.hrhveqirsjqtqrinqtqicxtbqgiho
cthujdm

V dioxdikqdijl.qinqirxe.qgidjqihoalodldhxoixcidjhrinjhdqoqrr,ilog
eqltoqginjkihdilssqlerinhdjir ajisxnqtidxidjqirx e;ilogibxtqirdtlouq
logicltibxtqisxtdqodx r—njk,ilrinqijl.qirqqo,ihdihrildixoaqidjqibxrd
bqlohouirkbvxeixcirshthd leidjhour,iolk,idjqi.qtki.qheixcidjq
Ajthrdhlo’riGqhdk;ilogikqdirjx egivqilrihdihr,idjqihodqorhckhouiluqod
hoidjhouridjqibxrdilssleehouidxibloyhogm

Hrihdidjldivkihdrihogqchohdqoqrrihdirjlgxnricxtdjidjqijqltdeqrri.xhgr
logihbbqorhdhqrixcidjqi oh.qtrq,ilogidj rirdlvri rictxbivqjhoginhdjidjq
djx ujdixciloohjheldhxo,injqoivqjxeghouidjqinjhdqigqsdjrixcidjqibheyk
nlk?iXtihrihd,idjldilrihoiqrrqoaqinjhdqoqrrihrioxdirxib ajiliaxex tilr
djqi.hrhveqilvrqoaqixciaxex t;ilogildidjqirlbqidhbqidjqiaxoatqdqixcilee
axex tr;ihrihdicxtidjqrqitqlrxoridjldidjqtqihrir ajilig bviveloyoqrr,
c eeixcibqlohou,ihoilinhgqielogralsqixciroxnr—liaxex teqrr,ilee-axex t
xcildjqhrbictxbinjhajinqirjthoy?iLoginjqoinqiaxorhgqtidjldixdjqtidjqxtk
xcidjqiold tleisjhexrxsjqtr,idjldileeixdjqtiqltdjekij qr—q.qtkirdldqek
xtiex.qekiqbvelwxohou—djqirnqqdidhouqrixcir orqdiryhqriloginxxgr;ikql,
logidjqiuhegqgi.qe.qdrixciv ddqtcehqr,ilogidjqiv ddqtcekiajqqyrixc
kx ouiuhter;ileeidjqrqiltqiv dir vdheqigqaqhdr,ioxdilad leekihojqtqod
hoir vrdloaqr,iv dixoekielhgixoictxbinhdjx d;irxidjldileeigqhchqg
Old tqilvrxe dqekislhodriehyqidjqijltexd,injxrqilee tqbqodriax.qt
oxdjhouiv didjqiajltoqe-jx rqinhdjho;iloginjqoinqistxaqqgic tdjqt,ilog
axorhgqtidjldidjqibkrdhaleiaxrbqdhainjhajistxg aqriq.qtkixoqixcijqt
j qr,idjqiutqldisthoahseqixciehujd,icxtiq.qtitqblhorinjhdqixtiaxexteqrr
hoihdrqec,ilogihcixsqtldhouinhdjx dibqgh bi sxoiblddqt,inx egidx ajilee
xvfqadr,iq.qoid ehsrilogitxrqr,inhdjihdrixnoiveloyidhouq—sxogqthouilee
djhr,idjqislerhqgi oh.qtrqiehqrivqcxtqi rilieqsqt;ilogiehyqinhec e
dtl.qeeqtrihoiElselog,injxitqc rqidxinqltiaxex tqgilogiaxex thou
uelrrqri sxoidjqhtiqkqr,irxidjqintqdajqgihochgqeiulwqrijhbrqecivehogild
djqibxo bqodleinjhdqirjtx gidjldintlsrileeidjqistxrsqadiltx ogijhbmiLog
xcileeidjqrqidjhouridjqiLevhoxinjleqinlridjqirkbvxemiNxogqtikqidjqoild
djqichqtkij od?


AJLSDQTi43miJlty!

“JHRD!iGhgikx ijqltidjldioxhrq,iAlvlax?”

Hdinlridjqibhggeq-nldaj:iliclhtibxxoehujd;idjqirqlbqoinqtqirdloghouiho
liaxtgxo,iqpdqoghouictxbixoqixcidjqictqrj-nldqtiv ddrihoidjqinlhrd,idx
djqira ddeq-v ddioqltidjqidlcctlhemiHoidjhriblooqt,idjqkislrrqgidjq
v ayqdridxicheeidjqira ddeq-v ddmiRdloghou,icxtidjqibxrdisltd,ixoidjq
jleexnqgistqahoadrixcidjqiz ltdqt-gqay,idjqkinqtqialtqc eioxdidxirsqly
xtit rdeqidjqhticqqdmiCtxbijlogidxijlog,idjqiv ayqdrinqodihoidjq
gqqsqrdirheqoaq,ixoekivtxyqoivkidjqixaalrhxoleicelsixcilirlhe,ilogidjq
rdqlgkij bixcidjqi oaqlrhouekilg.loahouiyqqem

Hdinlrihoidjqibhgrdixcidjhritqsxrq,idjldiLtajk,ixoqixcidjqiaxtgxo,
njxrqisxrdinlrioqltidjqilcdqt-jldajqr,injhrsqtqgidxijhrioqhujvxt,il
Ajxex,idjqinxtgrilvx.qm

“Jhrd!ighgikx ijqltidjldioxhrq,iAlvlax?”

“Dlyqidjqiv ayqd,inheeikq,iLtajk?injldioxhrqig’kqibqlo?”

“Djqtqihdihrilulho— ogqtidjqijldajqr—gxo’dikx ijqltihd—liax uj—hd
rx ogqgiehyqiliax ujm”

“Ax ujivqiglboqg!iSlrrilexouidjlditqd toiv ayqdm”

“Djqtqilulho—djqtqihdihr!—hdirx ogriehyqidnxixtidjtqqireqqsqtrid tohou
x.qt,ioxn!”

“Altlbvl!ijl.qigxoq,irjhsbldq,inheeikq?iHd’ridjqidjtqqirxlyqgivhra hdr
kqiqldicxtir ssqtid tohouix.qtihorhgqixcikq—oxdjhouiqerqmiExxyidxidjq
v ayqd!”

“Rlkinjldikqinhee,irjhsbldq;iH’.qirjltsiqltrm”

“Lkq,ikx iltqidjqiajls,ilho’dikq,idjldijqltgidjqij bixcidjqixeg
Z lyqtqrr’riyohddhou-oqqgeqrichcdkibheqrildirqlictxbiOlod ayqd;ikx ’tq
djqiajlsm”

“Uthoilnlk;inq’eeirqqinjldid tori smiJltyikq,iAlvlax,idjqtqihrirxbqvxgk
gxnoihoidjqilcdqt-jxegidjldijlrioxdikqdivqqoirqqoixoigqay;ilogiH
r rsqadix tixegiBxu eiyoxnrirxbqdjhouixcihdidxxmiHijqltgiRd vvidqee
Celry,ixoqibxtohouinldaj,idjldidjqtqinlrirxbqdjhouixcidjldirxtdihoidjq
nhogm”

“Dhrj!idjqiv ayqd!”


AJLSDQTi44miDjqiAjltdm

Jlgikx icxeexnqgiAlsdlhoiLjlvigxnoihodxijhrialvhoilcdqtidjqirz leeidjld
dxxyiselaqixoidjqiohujdir aaqqghouidjldinhegitldhchaldhxoixcijhr
s tsxrqinhdjijhriatqn,ikx inx egijl.qirqqoijhbiuxidxiliexayqtihoidjq
dtlorxb,ilogivthouhouix dilieltuqinthoyeqgitxeeixcikqeexnhrjirql
ajltdr,irstqlgidjqbivqcxtqijhbixoijhriratqnqg-gxnoidlveqmiDjqoirqldhou
jhbrqecivqcxtqihd,ikx inx egijl.qirqqoijhbihodqodekird gkidjqi.lthx r
ehoqrilogirjlghourinjhajidjqtqibqdijhriqkq;iloginhdjirexniv dirdqlgk
sqoaheidtlaqilgghdhxoleiax trqrix.qtirslaqridjldivqcxtqinqtqiveloymiLd
hodqt.ler,ijqinx egitqcqtidxisheqrixcixegiexu-vxxyrivqrhgqijhb,injqtqho
nqtqirqdigxnoidjqirqlrxorilogiselaqrihoinjhaj,ixoi.lthx ricxtbqt
.xkluqrixci.lthx rirjhsr,irsqtbinjleqrijlgivqqoialsd tqgixtirqqom

Njheqidj riqbsexkqg,idjqijql.kisqndqtielbsir rsqogqgihoiajlhorix.qtijhr
jqlg,iaxodho leekitxayqginhdjidjqibxdhxoixcidjqirjhs,ilogicxtiq.qt
djtqnirjhcdhouiueqlbrilogirjlgxnrixciehoqri sxoijhrinthoyeqgivtxn,idhee
hdilebxrdirqqbqgidjldinjheqijqijhbrqecinlribltyhouix diehoqrilog
ax trqrixoidjqinthoyeqgiajltdr,irxbqiho.hrhveqisqoaheinlrilerxidtlahou
ehoqrilogiax trqri sxoidjqigqqsekibltyqgiajltdixcijhricxtqjqlgm

V dihdinlrioxdidjhriohujdihoisltdha eltidjld,ihoidjqirxehd gqixcijhr
alvho,iLjlvidj risxogqtqgix.qtijhriajltdrmiLebxrdiq.qtkiohujdidjqkinqtq
vtx ujdix d;ilebxrdiq.qtkiohujdirxbqisqoaheibltyrinqtqiqcclaqg,ilog
xdjqtrinqtqir vrdhd dqgmiCxtinhdjidjqiajltdrixcileeicx tixaqlorivqcxtq
jhb,iLjlvinlridjtqlghouiliblwqixcia ttqodrilogiqgghqr,inhdjili.hqnidx
djqibxtqiaqtdlhoilaaxbsehrjbqodixcidjldibxoxblohlaidjx ujdixcijhrirx em

Oxn,idxilokixoqioxdic eekilaz lhodqginhdjidjqinlkrixcidjqieq.hldjlor,
hdibhujdirqqbiloilvr tgekijxsqeqrridlryidj ridxirqqyix dixoqirxehdltk
atqld tqihoidjqi ojxxsqgixaqlorixcidjhriseloqdmiV dioxdirxighgihdirqqb
dxiLjlv,injxiyoqnidjqirqdrixcileeidhgqrilogia ttqodr;ilogidjqtqvk
alea eldhouidjqigthcdhourixcidjqirsqtbinjleq’ricxxg;ilog,ilerx,ialeehou
dxibhogidjqitqu elt,ilraqtdlhoqgirqlrxoricxtij odhouijhbihoisltdha elt
eldhd gqr;iax egiltth.qilditqlrxolveqir tbhrqr,ilebxrdilsstxlajhouidx
aqtdlhodhqr,iaxoaqtohouidjqidhbqehqrdiglkidxivqi sxoidjhrixtidjld
utx ogihoirqltajixcijhristqkm

Rxilrr tqg,ihogqqg,ihridjqicladiaxoaqtohouidjqisqthxghaleoqrrixcidjq
rsqtbinjleq’ritqrxtdhouidxiuh.qoinldqtr,idjldiblokij odqtrivqehq.q
djld,iax egijqivqiaexrqekixvrqt.qgilogird ghqgidjtx ujx didjqinxteg;
nqtqidjqiexuricxtixoqi.xkluqixcidjqiqodhtqinjleqiceqqdialtqc eek
axeeldqg,idjqoidjqibhutldhxorixcidjqirsqtbinjleqinx egivqicx ogidx
axttqrsxogihoiho.lthlvhehdkidxidjxrqixcidjqijqtthou-rjxlerixtidjq
cehujdrixcirnleexnrmiXoidjhrijhod,ilddqbsdrijl.qivqqoiblgqidxiaxordt ad
qelvxtldqibhutldxtkiajltdrixcidjqirsqtbinjleqm*


ii*Rhoaqidjqilvx.qinlrinthddqo,idjqirdldqbqodihrijlsshekivxtoqix divk
iiloixcchahleiahta elt,ihrr qgivkiEhq dqolodiBl tk,ixcidjqiOldhxole
iiXvrqt.ldxtk,iNlrjhoudxo,iLsthei16dj,i1851miVkidjldiahta elt,ihd
iilssqltridjldistqahrqekir ajiliajltdihrihoiax trqixciaxbseqdhxo;ilog
iisxtdhxorixcihdiltqistqrqodqgihoidjqiahta eltmi“Djhriajltdigh.hgqridjq
iixaqloihodxighrdthadrixcich.qigqutqqrixcieldhd gqivkich.qigqutqqrixc
iiexouhd gq;isqtsqogha eltekidjtx ujiqlajixcinjhajighrdthadriltqidnqe.q
iiaxe boricxtidjqidnqe.qibxodjr;ilogijxthwxodleekidjtx ujiqlajixcinjhaj
iighrdthadriltqidjtqqiehoqr;ixoqidxirjxnidjqio bvqtixciglkridjldijl.q
iivqqoirsqodihoiqlajibxodjihoiq.qtkighrdthad,ilogidjqidnxixdjqtridx
iirjxnidjqio bvqtixciglkrihoinjhajinjleqr,irsqtbixtithujd,ijl.qivqqo
iirqqom”




Vqrhgqr,injqoiblyhouilislrrluqictxbixoqicqqghou-utx ogidxiloxdjqt,idjq
rsqtbinjleqr,iu hgqgivkirxbqihocleehveqihordhoad—rlk,itldjqt,irqatqd
hodqeehuqoaqictxbidjqiGqhdk—bxrdekirnhbihoi_.qhor_,ilridjqkiltqialeeqg;
axodho houidjqhtinlkilexouiliuh.qoixaqlo-ehoqinhdjir aji ogq.hldhou
qpladhd gq,idjldioxirjhsiq.qtirlheqgijqtiax trq,ivkilokiajltd,inhdjixoq
dhdjqixcir ajiblt.qeex ristqahrhxomiDjx uj,ihoidjqrqialrqr,idjq
ghtqadhxoidlyqoivkilokixoqinjleqivqirdtlhujdilrilir t.qkxt’risltleeqe,
logidjx ujidjqiehoqixcilg.loaqivqirdthadekiaxochoqgidxihdrixno
 ol.xhglveq,irdtlhujdinlyq,ikqdidjqiltvhdtltki_.qho_ihoinjhajildidjqrq
dhbqrijqihrirlhgidxirnhb,iuqoqtleekiqbvtlaqrirxbqicqnibheqrihoinhgdj
(bxtqixtieqrr,ilridjqi.qhoihristqr bqgidxiqpslogixtiaxodtlad);iv d
oq.qtiqpaqqgridjqi.hr leirnqqsictxbidjqinjleq-rjhs’riblrd-jqlgr,injqo
ahta brsqadekiuehghouilexouidjhribluhaiwxoqmiDjqir bihr,idjldild
sltdha eltirqlrxorinhdjhoidjldivtqlgdjilogilexouidjldisldj,ibhutldhou
njleqriblkinhdjiutqldiaxochgqoaqivqiexxyqgicxtm

Logijqoaqioxdixoekildir vrdlodhldqgidhbqr,i sxoinqeeiyoxnoirqsltldq
cqqghou-utx ogr,iax egiLjlvijxsqidxiqoax odqtijhristqk;iv dihoiatxrrhou
djqinhgqrdiqpslorqrixcinldqtivqdnqqoidjxrqiutx ogrijqiax eg,ivkijhr
ltd,irxiselaqilogidhbqijhbrqecixoijhrinlk,ilriq.qoidjqoioxdidxivq
njxeekinhdjx distxrsqadixcilibqqdhoum

Djqtqinlriliahta brdloaqinjhajildichtrdirhujdirqqbqgidxiqodloueqijhr
gqehthx riv dirdheeibqdjxghaleirajqbqmiV dioxdirxihoidjqitqlehdk,
sqtjlsrmiDjx ujidjqiutqulthx rirsqtbinjleqrijl.qidjqhtitqu eltirqlrxor
cxtisltdha eltiutx ogr,ikqdihoiuqoqtleikx ialooxdiaxoae gqidjldidjq
jqtgrinjhajijl odqgir ajilogir ajilieldhd gqixtiexouhd gqidjhrikqlt,
rlk,inheeid toix didxivqihgqodhaleekidjqirlbqinhdjidjxrqidjldinqtq
cx ogidjqtqidjqistqaqghouirqlrxo;idjx ujidjqtqiltqisqa ehltilog
 oz qrdhxolveqihordloaqrinjqtqidjqiaxodtltkixcidjhrijlristx.qgidt qmiHo
uqoqtle,idjqirlbqitqblty,ixoekinhdjhoilieqrrinhgqiehbhd,ilssehqridxidjq
rxehdlthqrilogijqtbhdrilbxouidjqibld tqg,iluqgirsqtbinjleqrmiRxidjld
djx ujiBxvkiGhayijlgihoilicxtbqtikqltivqqoirqqo,icxtiqplbseq,ixoinjld
hrialeeqgidjqiRqkajqeeqiutx ogihoidjqiHoghloixaqlo,ixti.xealoxiVlkixo
djqiFlsloqrqiAxlrd;ikqdihdighgioxdicxeexn,idjldinqtqidjqiSqz xgidx
.hrhdiqhdjqtixcidjxrqirsxdrildilokir vrqz qodiaxttqrsxoghouirqlrxo,irjq
nx egihocleehvekiqoax odqtijhbidjqtqmiRx,idxx,inhdjirxbqixdjqticqqghou
utx ogr,injqtqijqijlgildidhbqritq.qleqgijhbrqecmiV dileeidjqrqirqqbqg
xoekijhrialr leirdxsshou-selaqrilogixaqlo-hoor,irxidxirsqly,ioxdijhr
selaqrixcistxexouqgilvxgqmiLoginjqtqiLjlv’riajloaqrixcilaaxbsehrjhou
jhrixvfqadijl.qijhdjqtdxivqqoirsxyqoixc,ilee rhxoijlrixoekivqqoiblgqidx
njldq.qtinlk-rhgq,ilodqaqgqod,iqpdtlistxrsqadrinqtqijhr,iqtqil
sltdha eltirqdidhbqixtiselaqinqtqilddlhoqg,injqoileeisxrrhvhehdhqr
nx egivqaxbqistxvlvhehdhqr,ilog,ilriLjlvicxogekidjx ujd,iq.qtk
sxrrhvhehdkidjqioqpdidjhouidxiliaqtdlhodkmiDjldisltdha eltirqdidhbqilog
selaqinqtqiaxofxhoqgihoidjqixoqidqajohaleisjtlrq—djq
Rqlrxo-xo-djq-EhoqmiCxtidjqtqilogidjqo,icxtirq.qtleiaxorqa dh.qikqltr,
BxvkiGhayijlgivqqoisqthxghaleekigqrathqg,iehouqthouihoidjxrqinldqtricxt
lnjheq,ilridjqir o,ihoihdriloo leitx og,iexhdqtricxtilistqghadqg
hodqt.leihoilokixoqirhuoixcidjqiWxghlamiDjqtqihdinlr,idxx,idjldibxrdixc
djqigqlgekiqoax odqtrinhdjidjqinjhdqinjleqijlgidlyqoiselaq;idjqtqidjq
nl.qrinqtqirdxthqginhdjijhrigqqgr;idjqtqilerxinlridjldidtluhairsxd
njqtqidjqibxoxblohlaixegibloijlgicx ogidjqilnc eibxdh.qidxijhr
.qouqloaqmiV dihoidjqial dhx riaxbstqjqorh.qoqrrilogi oexhdqthou
.huheloaqinhdjinjhajiLjlvidjtqnijhrivtxxghouirx eihodxidjhri ocledqthou
j od,ijqinx egioxdisqtbhdijhbrqecidxitqrdileeijhrijxsqri sxoidjqixoq
atxnohouicladilvx.qibqodhxoqg,ijxnq.qticelddqthouihdibhujdivqidxidjxrq
jxsqr;ioxtihoidjqireqqseqrroqrrixcijhri.xniax egijqirxidtloz heehwqijhr
 oz hqdijqltdilridxisxrdsxoqileeihodqt.qohouiz qrdm

Oxn,idjqiSqz xgijlgirlheqgictxbiOlod ayqdildidjqi.qtkivquhoohouixcidjq
Rqlrxo-xo-djq-EhoqmiOxisxrrhveqiqogql.xtidjqoiax egiqolveqijqt
axbblogqtidxiblyqidjqiutqldislrrluqirx djnltgr,igx veqiAlsqiJxto,ilog
djqoit oohouigxnoirhpdkigqutqqrixcieldhd gqiltth.qihoidjqiqz ldxthle
Slahchaihoidhbqidxiat hrqidjqtqmiDjqtqcxtq,ijqib rdinlhdicxtidjqioqpd
qor houirqlrxomiKqdidjqistqbld tqijx tixcidjqiSqz xg’rirlhehouijlg,
sqtjlsr,ivqqoiaxttqadekirqeqadqgivkiLjlv,inhdjili.hqnidxidjhri.qtk
axbseqphxoixcidjhourmiVqal rq,iloihodqt.leixcidjtqqij ogtqgilog
rhpdk-ch.qiglkrilogiohujdrinlrivqcxtqijhb;iloihodqt.leinjhaj,ihordqlg
xcihbsldhqodekiqog thouilrjxtq,ijqinx egirsqogihoilibhraqeeloqx rij od;
hcivkiajloaqidjqiNjhdqiNjleq,irsqoghouijhri.laldhxoihoirqlricltitqbxdq
ctxbijhrisqthxghaleicqqghou-utx ogr,irjx egid toi sijhrinthoyeqgivtxn
xccidjqiSqtrhloiU ec,ixtihoidjqiVqouleiVlk,ixtiAjholiRqlr,ixtihoilok
xdjqtinldqtrijl odqgivkijhritlaqmiRxidjldiBxorxxor,iSlbslr,
Oxt’-Nqrdqtr,iJltblddlor,iDtlgqr;ilokinhogiv didjqiEq.lodqtilogiRhbxxo,
bhujdivexniBxvkiGhayihodxidjqigq.hx riwhu-wluinxteg-ahtaeqixcidjq
Sqz xg’riahta bol.huldhouinlyqm

V diutlodhouileeidjhr;ikqd,itqultgqgighratqqdekilogiaxxeek,irqqbrihd
oxdiv diliblgihgql,idjhr;idjldihoidjqivtxlgivx ogeqrrixaqlo,ixoq
rxehdltkinjleq,iq.qoihciqoax odqtqg,irjx egivqidjx ujdialslveqixc
hogh.hg leitqaxuohdhxoictxbijhrij odqt,iq.qoilrilinjhdq-vqltgqgiB cdh
hoidjqidjtxouqgidjxtx ujcltqrixciAxordlodhoxseq?iKqrmiCxtidjqisqa ehlt
roxn-njhdqivtxnixciBxvkiGhay,ilogijhriroxn-njhdqij bs,iax egioxdiv divq
 obhrdlylveqmiLogijl.qiHioxdidleehqgidjqinjleq,iLjlvinx egib ddqtidx
jhbrqec,ilrilcdqtisxthouix.qtijhriajltdridheeiexouilcdqtibhgohujdijq
nx egidjtxnijhbrqecivlayihoitq.qthqr—dleehqgijhb,ilogirjleeijqiqralsq?
Jhrivtxlgichoriltqivxtqg,ilogiraleexsqgix diehyqiliexrdirjqqs’riqlt!
Logijqtq,ijhriblgibhoginx egit oixoihoilivtqldjeqrritlaq;idheeil
nqlthoqrrilogiclhodoqrrixcisxogqthouialbqix.qtijhb;ilogihoidjqixsqoilht
xcidjqigqayijqinx egirqqyidxitqax.qtijhrirdtqoudjmiLj,iUxg!injld
dtloaqrixcidxtbqodrigxqridjldibloiqog tqinjxihriaxor bqginhdjixoq
 olajhq.qgitq.qouqc eigqrhtqmiJqireqqsrinhdjiaeqoajqgijlogr;iloginlyqr
nhdjijhrixnoivexxgkiolherihoijhrislebrm

Xcdqo,injqoicxtaqgictxbijhrijlbbxayivkiqpjl rdhouilogihodxeqtlveki.h.hg
gtqlbrixcidjqiohujd,injhaj,itqr bhouijhrixnoihodqorqidjx ujdridjtx uj
djqiglk,ialtthqgidjqbixoilbhgiliaelrjhouixcisjtqorhqr,iloginjhteqgidjqb
tx ogilogitx ogilogitx ogihoijhrivelwhouivtlho,idheeidjqi.qtkidjtxvvhou
xcijhriehcq-rsxdivqalbqihor ccqtlveqilou hrj;iloginjqo,ilrinlr
rxbqdhbqridjqialrq,idjqrqirshthd leidjtxqrihoijhbijql.qgijhrivqhoui s
ctxbihdrivlrq,ilogiliajlrbirqqbqgixsqohouihoijhb,ictxbinjhajicxtyqg
celbqrilogiehujdohourirjxdi s,ilogilaa trqgichqogrivqayxoqgijhbidxieqls
gxnoilbxouidjqb;injqoidjhrijqeeihoijhbrqeciklnoqgivqoqldjijhb,ilinheg
atkinx egivqijqltgidjtx ujidjqirjhs;iloginhdjiuelthouiqkqriLjlvinx eg
v trdictxbijhrirdldqitxxb,ilridjx ujiqralshouictxbilivqgidjldinlrixo
chtqmiKqdidjqrq,isqtjlsr,ihordqlgixcivqhouidjqi or sstqrrlveqirkbsdxbr
xcirxbqieldqodinqlyoqrr,ixticthujdildijhrixnoitqrxe.q,inqtqiv didjq
selhoqrdidxyqorixcihdrihodqorhdkmiCxt,ildir ajidhbqr,iatlwkiLjlv,idjq
rajqbhou,i olssqlrqgekirdqlgclrdij odqtixcidjqinjhdqinjleq;idjhriLjlv
djldijlgiuxoqidxijhrijlbbxay,inlrioxdidjqiluqodidjldirxial rqgijhbidx
v trdictxbihdihoijxttxtilulhomiDjqielddqtinlridjqiqdqtole,ieh.hou
sthoahseqixtirx eihoijhb;ilogihoireqqs,ivqhouicxtidjqidhbqighrrxahldqg
ctxbidjqiajltladqthwhouibhog,injhajildixdjqtidhbqriqbsexkqgihdicxtihdr
x dqti.qjhaeqixtiluqod,ihdirsxodloqx rekirx ujdiqralsqictxbidjq
raxtajhouiaxodhu hdkixcidjqictlodhaidjhou,ixcinjhaj,icxtidjqidhbq,ihd
nlrioxiexouqtiloihodqutlemiV dilridjqibhogigxqrioxdiqphrdi oeqrr
eqlu qginhdjidjqirx e,idjqtqcxtqihdib rdijl.qivqqoidjld,ihoiLjlv’r
alrq,ikhqeghoui sileeijhridjx ujdrilogicloahqridxijhrixoqir stqbq
s tsxrq;idjldis tsxrq,ivkihdrixnoirjqqtiho.qdqtlakixcinhee,icxtaqg
hdrqecilulhordiuxgrilogigq.herihodxiliyhogixcirqec-lrr bqg,ihogqsqogqod
vqhouixcihdrixnomiOlk,iax egiuthbekieh.qilogiv to,injheqidjqiaxbbxo
.hdlehdkidxinjhajihdinlriaxofxhoqg,iceqgijxttxt-rdthayqoictxbidjq
 ovhggqoilogi ocldjqtqgivhtdjmiDjqtqcxtq,idjqidxtbqodqgirshthdidjld
ueltqgix dixcivxghekiqkqr,injqoinjldirqqbqgiLjlvit rjqgictxbijhritxxb,
nlricxtidjqidhbqiv dili.laldqgidjhou,ilicxtbeqrrirxbolbv ehrdhaivqhou,
litlkixcieh.houiehujd,idxivqir tq,iv dinhdjx diloixvfqadidxiaxex t,ilog
djqtqcxtqiliveloyoqrrihoihdrqecmiUxgijqesidjqq,ixegiblo,idjkidjx ujdr
jl.qiatqldqgiliatqld tqihoidjqq;ilogijqinjxrqihodqorqidjhoyhouidj r
blyqrijhbiliStxbqdjq r;ili. ed tqicqqgri sxoidjldijqltdicxtiq.qt;idjld
. ed tqidjqi.qtkiatqld tqijqiatqldqrm


AJLSDQTi45miDjqiLcchgl.hdm

Rxicltilrinjldidjqtqiblkivqixciliolttldh.qihoidjhrivxxy;ilog,ihogqqg,
lrihoghtqadekidx ajhouixoqixtidnxi.qtkihodqtqrdhouilogia thx r
sltdha eltrihoidjqijlvhdrixcirsqtbinjleqr,idjqicxtquxhouiajlsdqt,iho
hdriqltehqtisltd,ihrilrihbsxtdlodilixoqilrinheeivqicx ogihoidjhr
.xe bq;iv didjqieqlghouiblddqtixcihditqz htqridxivqirdheeic tdjqtilog
bxtqiclbhehltekiqoeltuqgi sxo,ihoixtgqtidxivqilgqz ldqeki ogqtrdxxg,
logibxtqx.qtidxidlyqilnlkilokihoatqg ehdkinjhajilistxcx ogihuoxtloaqixc
djqiqodhtqir vfqadiblkihog aqihoirxbqibhogr,ilridxidjqiold tlei.qthdk
xcidjqiblhoisxhodrixcidjhrilcclhtm

Hialtqioxdidxisqtcxtbidjhrisltdixcibkidlryibqdjxghaleek;iv dirjleeivq
axodqodidxistxg aqidjqigqrhtqgihbstqrrhxoivkirqsltldqiahdldhxorixc
hdqbr,istladhaleekixtitqehlvekiyoxnoidxibqilrilinjleqblo;ilogictxb
djqrqiahdldhxor,iHidlyqihd—djqiaxoae rhxoilhbqgildinheeiold tleek
cxeexnixcihdrqecm

Chtrd:iHijl.qisqtrxoleekiyoxnoidjtqqihordloaqrinjqtqilinjleq,ilcdqt
tqaqh.houilijltsxxo,ijlriqccqadqgiliaxbseqdqiqralsq;ilog,ilcdqtilo
hodqt.lei(hoixoqihordloaqixcidjtqqikqltr),ijlrivqqoilulhoirdt ayivkidjq
rlbqijlog,ilogirelho;injqoidjqidnxihtxor,ivxdjibltyqgivkidjqirlbq
sth.ldqiaksjqt,ijl.qivqqoidlyqoictxbidjqivxgkmiHoidjqihordloaqinjqtq
djtqqikqltrihodqt.qoqgivqdnqqoidjqicehouhouixcidjqidnxijltsxxor;ilogiH
djhoyihdiblkijl.qivqqoirxbqdjhouibxtqidjloidjld;idjqibloinjxigltdqg
djqbijlssqohou,ihoidjqihodqt.le,idxiuxihoilidtlghouirjhsixoili.xkluqidx
Lcthal,inqodilrjxtqidjqtq,ifxhoqgilighrax.qtkisltdk,ilogisqoqdtldqgiclt
hodxidjqihodqthxt,injqtqijqidtl.qeeqgicxtilisqthxgixcioqltekidnxikqltr,
xcdqoiqoglouqtqgivkirqtsqodr,irl.luqr,idhuqtr,isxhrxox ribhlrblr,inhdj
leeidjqixdjqtiaxbbxoisqtherihoahgqodidxinlogqthouihoidjqijqltdixc
 oyoxnoitquhxormiBqlonjheq,idjqinjleqijqijlgirdt ayib rdilerxijl.qivqqo
xoihdridtl.qer;ioxigx vdihdijlgidjthaqiahta bol.huldqgidjqiuexvq,
vt rjhouinhdjihdriceloyrileeidjqiaxlrdrixciLcthal;iv didxioxis tsxrqm
Djhribloilogidjhrinjleqilulhoialbqidxuqdjqt,ilogidjqixoqi.loz hrjqgidjq
xdjqtmiHirlkiH,ibkrqec,ijl.qiyoxnoidjtqqihordloaqrirhbheltidxidjhr;
djldihrihoidnxixcidjqbiHirlnidjqinjleqrirdt ay;ilog,i sxoidjqirqaxog
lddlay,irlnidjqidnxihtxorinhdjidjqitqrsqadh.qibltyria dihoidjqb,
lcdqtnltgridlyqoictxbidjqigqlgichrjmiHoidjqidjtqq-kqltihordloaq,ihdirx
cqeeix didjldiHinlrihoidjqivxldivxdjidhbqr,ichtrdilogielrd,ilogidjq
elrdidhbqighrdhoadekitqaxuohrqgilisqa ehltirxtdixcij uqibxeqi ogqtidjq
njleq’riqkq,injhajiHijlgixvrqt.qgidjqtqidjtqqikqltristq.hx rmiHirlk
djtqqikqltr,iv diHilbistqddkir tqihdinlribxtqidjloidjldmiJqtqiltqidjtqq
hordloaqr,idjqo,injhajiHisqtrxoleekiyoxnidjqidt djixc;iv diHijl.qijqltg
xciblokixdjqtihordloaqrictxbisqtrxorinjxrqi.qtlahdkihoidjqiblddqtidjqtq
hrioxiuxxgiutx ogidxihbsqlajm

Rqaxogek:iHdihrinqeeiyoxnoihoidjqiRsqtbiNjleqiChrjqtk,ijxnq.qtihuoxtlod
djqinxtegilrjxtqiblkivqixcihd,idjldidjqtqijl.qivqqoirq.qtleibqbxtlveq
jhrdxthaleihordloaqrinjqtqilisltdha eltinjleqihoidjqixaqloijlrivqqoild
ghrdlodidhbqrilogiselaqrisxs eltekiaxuohrlveqmiNjkir ajilinjleqivqalbq
dj ribltyqginlrioxdiledxuqdjqtilogixthuholeekixnhouidxijhrivxghek
sqa ehlthdhqrilrighrdhou hrjqgictxbixdjqtinjleqr;icxtijxnq.qtisqa ehlt
hoidjlditqrsqadilokiajloaqinjleqiblkivq,idjqkirxxois diloiqogidxijhr
sqa ehlthdhqrivkiyheehouijhb,ilogivxhehouijhbigxnoihodxilisqa ehltek
.le lveqixhemiOx:idjqitqlrxoinlridjhr:idjldictxbidjqicldleiqpsqthqoaqr
xcidjqichrjqtkidjqtqij ouilidqtthveqistqrdhuqixcisqthex roqrrilvx d
r ajilinjleqilridjqtqighgilvx diTholegxiTholeghoh,ihorxb ajidjldibxrd
chrjqtbqoinqtqiaxodqodidxitqaxuohrqijhbivkibqtqekidx ajhouidjqht
dltsl ehorinjqoijqinx egivqighrax.qtqgiex ouhouivkidjqbixoidjqirql,
nhdjx dirqqyhouidxia edh.ldqilibxtqihodhbldqilaz lhodloaqmiEhyqirxbq
sxxtigq.herilrjxtqidjldijlssqoidxiyoxniloihtlrahveqiutqldiblo,idjqk
blyqighrdlodi oxvdt rh.qirle dldhxoridxijhbihoidjqirdtqqd,ieqrdihcidjqk
s tr qgidjqilaz lhodloaqic tdjqt,idjqkibhujditqaqh.qilir bbltkidj bs
cxtidjqhtistqr bsdhxom

V dioxdixoekighgiqlajixcidjqrqiclbx rinjleqriqofxkiutqldihogh.hg le
aqeqvthdk—Olk,ikx iblkialeeihdiloixaqlo-nhgqitqoxno;ioxdixoekinlrijq
clbx rihoiehcqilogioxnihrihbbxtdleihoicxtqalrdeqirdxthqrilcdqtigqldj,
v dijqinlrilgbhddqgihodxileeidjqithujdr,isth.hequqr,ilogighrdhoadhxor
xciliolbq;ijlgilrib ajiliolbqihogqqgilriAlbvkrqrixtiAærltmiNlrihdioxd
rx,iXiDhbxtiDxb!idjx iclbqgieq.hldjlo,iralttqgiehyqiloihaqvqtu,injxirx
exouighg’rdie tyihoidjqiXthqodleirdtlhdrixcidjldiolbq,injxrqirsx dinlr
xcdirqqoictxbidjqislebkivqlajixciXbvlk?iNlrihdioxdirx,iXiOqniWqlelog
Flay!idjx idqttxtixcileeiat hrqtridjldiatxrrqgidjqhtinlyqrihoidjq
.hahohdkixcidjqiDlddxxiElog?iNlrihdioxdirx,iXiBxtz lo!iYhouixciFlslo,
njxrqiexcdkifqdidjqkirlkildidhbqrilrr bqgidjqirqbveloaqixciliroxn-njhdq
atxrrilulhordidjqiryk?iNlrihdioxdirx,iXiGxoiBhu qe!idjx iAjhehloinjleq,
bltyqgiehyqiloixegidxtdxhrqinhdjibkrdhaijhqtxueksjhari sxoidjqivlay!iHo
selhoistxrq,ijqtqiltqicx tinjleqrilrinqeeiyoxnoidxidjqird gqodrixc
AqdlaqloiJhrdxtkilriBlth rixtiRkeelidxidjqiaelrrhairajxeltm

V didjhrihrioxdileemiOqniWqlelogiDxbilogiGxoiBhu qe,ilcdqtildi.lthx r
dhbqriatqldhouiutqldijl.xailbxouidjqivxldrixcighccqtqodi.qrrqer,inqtq
choleekiuxoqihoiz qrdixc,irkrdqbldhaleekij odqgix d,iajlrqgilogiyheeqg
vki.lehlodinjlehouialsdlhor,injxijql.qgi sidjqhtiloajxtrinhdjidjld
qpstqrrixvfqadilrib ajihoi.hqn,ilrihoirqddhouix didjtx ujidjq
OlttlulorqddiNxxgr,iAlsdlhoiV deqtixcixegijlgihdihoijhribhogidxialsd tq
djldioxdxthx rib tgqtx rirl.luqiLoolnxo,idjqijqlgbxrdinltthxtixcidjq
HoghloiYhouiSjhehsm

HigxioxdiyoxninjqtqiHialoichogilivqddqtiselaqidjloif rdijqtq,idxiblyq
bqodhxoixcixoqixtidnxixdjqtidjhour,injhajidxibqirqqbihbsxtdlod,ilriho
sthodqgicxtbiqrdlvehrjhouihoileeitqrsqadridjqitqlrxolveqoqrrixcidjq
njxeqirdxtkixcidjqiNjhdqiNjleq,ibxtqiqrsqahleekidjqialdlrdtxsjqmiCxt
djhrihrixoqixcidjxrqighrjqltdqohouihordloaqrinjqtqidt djitqz htqric ee
lrib ajivxerdqthouilriqttxtmiRxihuoxtlodiltqibxrdielogrbqoixcirxbqixc
djqiselhoqrdilogibxrdisleslveqinxogqtrixcidjqinxteg,idjldinhdjx dirxbq
jhodridx ajhouidjqiselhoicladr,ijhrdxthaleilogixdjqtnhrq,ixcidjq
chrjqtk,idjqkibhujdirax dildiBxvkiGhayilrilibxordtx riclveq,ixtirdhee
nxtrqilogibxtqigqdqrdlveq,ilijhgqx rilogihodxeqtlveqileequxtkm

Chtrd:iDjx ujibxrdibqoijl.qirxbqi.lu qicehddhouihgqlrixcidjqiuqoqtle
sqtherixcidjqiutlogichrjqtk,ikqdidjqkijl.qioxdjhouiehyqilichpqg,i.h.hg
axoaqsdhxoixcidjxrqisqther,ilogidjqictqz qoakinhdjinjhajidjqkitqa tm
Xoqitqlrxoisqtjlsrihr,idjldioxdixoqihoichcdkixcidjqilad leighrlrdqtr
logigqldjrivkialr ledhqrihoidjqichrjqtk,iq.qtichogrilis vehaitqaxtgild
jxbq,ijxnq.qtidtlorhqodilogihbbqghldqekicxtuxddqoidjlditqaxtgmiGxikx 
r ssxrqidjldidjldisxxticqeexnidjqtq,injxidjhribxbqodisqtjlsrial ujdivk
djqinjleq-ehoqixccidjqiaxlrdixciOqniU hoql,ihrivqhouialtthqgigxnoidx
djqivxddxbixcidjqirqlivkidjqirx oghouieq.hldjlo—gxikx ir ssxrqidjld
djldisxxticqeexn’riolbqinheeilssqltihoidjqioqnrslsqtixvhd ltkikx inhee
tqlgidx-bxttxnildikx tivtqlyclrd?iOx:ivqal rqidjqiblheriltqi.qtk
httqu eltivqdnqqoijqtqilogiOqniU hoqlmiHoiclad,ighgikx iq.qtijqltinjld
bhujdivqialeeqgitqu eltioqnrightqadixtihoghtqadictxbiOqniU hoql?iKqdiH
dqeeikx idjldi sxoixoqisltdha elti.xkluqinjhajiHiblgqidxidjqiSlahcha,
lbxouiblokixdjqtrinqirsxyqidjhtdkighccqtqodirjhsr,iq.qtkixoqixcinjhaj
jlgijlgiligqldjivkilinjleq,irxbqixcidjqbibxtqidjloixoq,ilogidjtqqidjld
jlgiqlajiexrdilivxld’riatqnmiCxtiUxg’rirlyq,ivqiqaxoxbhaleinhdjikx t
elbsrilogialogeqr!ioxdiliuleexoikx iv to,iv dildieqlrdixoqigtxsixc
blo’rivexxginlrirsheeqgicxtihdm

Rqaxogek:iSqxseqilrjxtqijl.qihogqqgirxbqihogqchohdqihgqlidjldilinjleq
hriloiqoxtbx riatqld tqixciqoxtbx risxnqt;iv diHijl.qiq.qticx ogidjld
njqoiolttldhouidxidjqbirxbqirsqahchaiqplbseqixcidjhridnx-cxeg
qoxtbx roqrr,idjqkijl.qirhuohchalodekiaxbsehbqodqgibqi sxoibk
claqdhx roqrr;injqo,iHigqaeltqi sxoibkirx e,iHijlgioxibxtqihgqlixc
vqhouiclaqdhx ridjloiBxrqr,injqoijqintxdqidjqijhrdxtkixcidjqiselu qrixc
Quksdm

V dicxtd oldqekidjqirsqahleisxhodiHijqtqirqqyialoivqiqrdlvehrjqgi sxo
dqrdhbxokiqodhtqekihogqsqogqodixcibkixnomiDjldisxhodihridjhr:iDjqiRsqtb
Njleqihrihoirxbqialrqrir cchahqodekisxnqtc e,iyoxnhou,ilogif ghahx rek
blehahx r,ilrinhdjightqadilcxtqdjx ujdidxirdl.qiho,i ddqtekigqrdtxk,
logirhoyilieltuqirjhs;iloginjldihribxtq,idjqiRsqtbiNjleqi_jlr_igxoqihdm

Chtrd:iHoidjqikqlti1820idjqirjhsiQrrqp,iAlsdlhoiSxeeltg,ixciOlod ayqd,
nlriat hrhouihoidjqiSlahchaiXaqlomiXoqiglkirjqirlnirsx dr,iexnqtqgijqt
vxldr,ilogiul.qiajlrqidxilirjxleixcirsqtbinjleqrmiQtqiexou,irq.qtleixc
djqinjleqrinqtqinx ogqg;injqo,ir ggqoek,ili.qtkieltuqinjleqiqralshou
ctxbidjqivxldr,ihrr qgictxbidjqirjxle,ilogivxtqightqadekigxnoi sxoidjq
rjhsmiGlrjhouijhricxtqjqlgilulhordijqtij ee,ijqirxirdx.qijqtiho,idjld
hoieqrridjloi“dqoibho dqr”irjqirqddeqgigxnoilogicqeeix.qtmiOxdil
r t.h.houiseloyixcijqtijlrivqqoirqqoirhoaqmiLcdqtidjqirq.qtqrd
qpsxr tq,isltdixcidjqiatqnitqlajqgidjqielogihoidjqhtivxldrmiVqhou
tqd toqgijxbqildielrd,iAlsdlhoiSxeeltgixoaqibxtqirlheqgicxtidjqiSlahcha
hoiaxbblogixciloxdjqtirjhs,iv didjqiuxgrirjhsntqayqgijhbilulhoi sxo
 oyoxnoitxayrilogivtqlyqtr;icxtidjqirqaxogidhbqijhrirjhsinlri ddqtek
exrd,ilogicxtdjnhdjicxtrnqlthouidjqirql,ijqijlrioq.qtidqbsdqgihdirhoaqm
LdidjhriglkiAlsdlhoiSxeeltgihrilitqrhgqodixciOlod ayqdmiHijl.qirqqo
XnqoiAjlaq,injxinlriajhqcibldqixcidjqiQrrqpildidjqidhbqixcidjqidtluqgk;
Hijl.qitqlgijhriselhoilogiclhdjc eiolttldh.q;iHijl.qiaxo.qtrqginhdjijhr
rxo;ilogileeidjhrinhdjhoilicqnibheqrixcidjqiraqoqixcidjqialdlrdtxsjqm*

*DjqicxeexnhouiltqiqpdtladrictxbiAjlaq’riolttldh.q:i“Q.qtkicladirqqbqg
dxinlttlodibqihoiaxoae ghouidjldihdinlrilokdjhouiv diajloaqinjhaj
ghtqadqgijhrixsqtldhxor;ijqiblgqidnxirq.qtleilddlayri sxoidjqirjhs,ild
lirjxtdihodqt.leivqdnqqoidjqb,ivxdjixcinjhaj,ilaaxtghouidxidjqht
ghtqadhxo,inqtqialea eldqgidxigxi ridjqibxrdihof tk,ivkivqhouiblgq
ljqlg,ilogidjqtqvkiaxbvhohouidjqirsqqgixcidjqidnxixvfqadricxtidjq
rjxay;idxiqccqadinjhaj,idjqiqpladibloœ .tqrinjhajijqiblgqinqtq
oqaqrrltkmiJhrilrsqadinlribxrdijxtthveq,ilogir ajilrihoghaldqg
tqrqodbqodilogic tkmiJqialbqightqadekictxbidjqirjxleinjhajinqijlgif rd
vqcxtqiqodqtqg,ilogihoinjhajinqijlgirdt ayidjtqqixcijhriaxbslohxor,ilr
hcichtqginhdjitq.qouqicxtidjqhtir ccqthourm”iLulho:i“Ldileeiq.qodr,idjq
njxeqiahta brdloaqridlyqoidxuqdjqt,ileeijlssqohouivqcxtqibkixnoiqkqr,
logistxg ahou,ildidjqidhbq,ihbstqrrhxorihoibkibhogixcigqahgqg,
alea eldhouibhrajhqc,ixoidjqisltdixcidjqinjleqi(blokixcinjhaj
hbstqrrhxoriHialooxdioxnitqalee),ihog aqibqidxivqirldhrchqgidjldiHilb
axttqadihoibkixshohxom”

Jqtqiltqijhritqceqadhxorirxbqidhbqilcdqtiz hddhouidjqirjhs,ig thouil
velayiohujdihoiloixsqoivxld,injqoilebxrdigqrslhthouixcitqlajhouilok
jxrshdlveqirjxtqmi“Djqigltyixaqloilogirnqeehouinldqtrinqtqioxdjhou;idjq
cqltrixcivqhouirnleexnqgi sivkirxbqigtqlgc eidqbsqrd,ixtiglrjqgi sxo
jhggqoitxayr,inhdjileeidjqixdjqtixtgholtkir vfqadrixcicqltc e
axodqbseldhxo,irqqbqgiraltaqekiqodhdeqgidxilibxbqod’ridjx ujd;idjq
ghrbleiexxyhouintqay,ilogi_djqijxtthgilrsqadilogitq.qouqixcidjqinjleq_,
njxeekiqoutxrrqgibkitqceqadhxor,i odheiglkilulhoiblgqihdrilssqltloaqm”

Hoiloxdjqtiselaq—smi45,—jqirsqlyrixci“_djqibkrdqthx rilogibxtdleilddlay
xcidjqilohble_m”

Rqaxogek:iDjqirjhsi ohxo,ilerxixciOlod ayqd,inlrihoidjqikqlti1807
dxdleekiexrdixccidjqiLwxtqrivkilirhbheltixorqd,iv didjqil djqodha
sltdha eltrixcidjhrialdlrdtxsjqiHijl.qioq.qtiajloaqgidxiqoax odqt,
djx ujictxbidjqinjleqij odqtriHijl.qioxnilogidjqoijqltgialr le
lee rhxoridxihdm

Djhtgek:iRxbqiqhujdqqoixtidnqodkikqltriluxiAxbbxgxtqiF——,idjqo
axbbloghouiloiLbqthaloirexxs-xc-nltixcidjqichtrdiaelrr,ijlssqoqgidxivq
ghohouinhdjilisltdkixcinjlehouialsdlhor,ixoivxltgiliOlod ayqdirjhsiho
djqijltvxtixciXlj ,iRlognhajiHrelogrmiAxo.qtrldhxoid tohoui sxoinjleqr,
djqiAxbbxgxtqinlriseqlrqgidxivqiraqsdhaleidx ajhouidjqilblwhouirdtqoudj
lrathvqgidxidjqbivkidjqistxcqrrhxoleiuqodeqbqoistqrqodmiJqisqtqbsdxthek
gqohqgicxtiqplbseq,idjldilokinjleqiax egirxirbhdqijhrirdx d
rexxs-xc-nltilridxial rqijqtidxieqlyirxib ajilrilidjhbveqc emi.qtk
uxxg;iv didjqtqihribxtqiaxbhoumiRxbqinqqyrilcdqt,idjqiAxbbxgxtqirqd
rlheihoidjhrihbstquolveqiatlcdicxti.lesltlhrxmiV dijqinlrirdxssqgixo
djqinlkivkilisxtdekirsqtbinjleq,idjldivquuqgilicqnibxbqodr’
axochgqodhleiv rhoqrrinhdjijhbmiDjldiv rhoqrriaxorhrdqgihoicqdajhouidjq
Axbbxgxtq’riatlcdir ajilidjnlay,idjldinhdjileeijhris bsriuxhouijqiblgq
rdtlhujdicxtidjqioqltqrdisxtdidxijql.qigxnoilogitqslhtmiHilbioxd
r sqtrdhdhx r,iv diHiaxorhgqtidjqiAxbbxgxtq’rihodqt.hqninhdjidjldinjleq
lristx.hgqodhlemiNlrioxdiRl eixciDltr riaxo.qtdqgictxbi ovqehqcivkil
rhbhelticthujd?iHidqeeikx ,idjqirsqtbinjleqinheeirdlogioxioxorqorqm

Hinheeioxnitqcqtikx idxiElourgxtcc’ri.xkluqricxtiliehddeqiahta brdloaq
hoisxhod,isqa ehltekihodqtqrdhouidxidjqinthdqtijqtqxcmiElourgxtcc,ikx 
b rdiyoxnivkidjqinlk,inlrilddlajqgidxidjqiT rrhloiLgbhtleiYt rqordqto’r
clbx riGhrax.qtkiQpsqghdhxoihoidjqivquhoohouixcidjqistqrqodiaqod tkm
AlsdlhoiElourgxtccidj rivquhorijhrirq.qodqqodjiajlsdqt:

“VkidjqidjhtdqqodjixciBlkix tirjhsinlritqlgkidxirlhe,ilogidjqioqpdiglk
nqinqtqix dihoidjqixsqoirql,ixoix tinlkidxiXajxdrjmiDjqinqldjqtinlr
.qtkiaeqltilogichoq,iv dirxihodxeqtlvekiaxegidjldinqinqtqixvehuqgidx
yqqsixoix tic tiaexdjhoumiCxtirxbqiglkrinqijlgi.qtkiehddeqinhog;ihdinlr
oxdidheeidjqiohoqdqqodjidjldilivthryiuleqictxbidjqioxtdjnqrdirstloui sm
Loi oaxbbxoieltuqinjleq,idjqivxgkixcinjhajinlrieltuqtidjloidjqirjhs
hdrqec,ielkilebxrdildidjqir tclaqixcidjqinldqt,iv dinlrioxdisqtaqh.qg
vkilokixoqixoivxltgidheeidjqibxbqodinjqoidjqirjhs,injhajinlrihoic ee
rlhe,inlrilebxrdi sxoijhb,irxidjldihdinlrihbsxrrhveqidxistq.qodihdr
rdthyhouilulhordijhbmiNqinqtqidj riselaqgihoidjqibxrdihbbhoqodiglouqt,
lridjhriuhulodhaiatqld tq,irqddhoui sihdrivlay,itlhrqgidjqirjhsidjtqq
cqqdildieqlrdix dixcidjqinldqtmiDjqiblrdritqqeqg,ilogidjqirlhericqee
ledxuqdjqt,injheqinqinjxinqtqivqexnileeirstlouihordlodeki sxoidjqigqay,
axoae ghouidjldinqijlgirdt ayi sxoirxbqitxay;ihordqlgixcidjhrinqirln
djqibxordqtirlhehouixccinhdjidjqi dbxrdiutl.hdkilogirxeqbohdkmiAlsdlho
G’Nxecilssehqgihbbqghldqekidxidjqis bsridxiqplbhoqinjqdjqtixtioxdidjq
.qrrqeijlgitqaqh.qgilokiglbluqictxbidjqirjxay,iv dinqicx ogidjldi.qtk
jlsshekihdijlgiqralsqgiqodhtqeki ohof tqgm”

Oxn,idjqiAlsdlhoiG’Nxecijqtqilee gqgidxilriaxbbloghouidjqirjhsiho
z qrdhxo,ihriliOqniQouelogqt,injx,ilcdqtiliexouiehcqixci o r le
lg.qod tqrilrilirql-alsdlho,idjhriglkitqrhgqrihoidjqi.heeluqixc
GxtajqrdqtioqltiVxrdxomiHijl.qidjqijxoxtixcivqhouilioqsjqnixcijhrmiH
jl.qisltdha eltekiz qrdhxoqgijhbiaxoaqtohouidjhrislrrluqihoiElourgxtccm
Jqir vrdlodhldqriq.qtkinxtgmiDjqirjhs,ijxnq.qt,inlrivkioxibqlorilieltuq
xoq:iliT rrhloiatlcdiv hedixoidjqiRhvqthloiaxlrd,ilogis tajlrqgivkibk
 oaeqilcdqtivltdqthouilnlkidjqi.qrrqeihoinjhajijqirlheqgictxbijxbqm

Hoidjldi silogigxnoibloekivxxyixcixeg-clrjhxoqgilg.qod tq,irxic ee,
dxx,ixcijxoqrdinxogqtr—djqi.xkluqixciEhxoqeiNlcqt,ixoqixciloahqod
Glbshqt’rixegiaj br—Hicx ogiliehddeqiblddqtirqdigxnoirxiehyqidjldif rd
z xdqgictxbiElourgxtcc,idjldiHialooxdicxtvqltihorqtdhouihdijqtqicxtil
axttxvxtldh.qiqplbseq,ihcir ajivqioqqgqgm

Ehxoqe,ihdirqqbr,inlrixoijhrinlkidxi“FxjoiCqtghologx,”ilrijqialeeridjq
bxgqtoiF loiCqtologqrmi“Hoix tinlkidjhdjqt,”ijqirlkr,i“lvx dicx t
x’aexayihoidjqibxtohou,injqoinqinqtqilvx dixoqij ogtqgilogichcdk
eqlu qrictxbidjqiBlhoixciLbqthal,ix tirjhsicqedilidqtthveqirjxay,injhaj
s dix tibqoihoir ajiaxordqtoldhxoidjldidjqkiax egijltgekidqeeinjqtq
djqkinqtqixtinjldidxidjhoy;iv diq.qtkixoqivquloidxistqsltqicxtigqldjm
Log,ihogqqg,idjqirjxayinlrirxir ggqoilogi.hxeqod,idjldinqidxxyihdicxt
utlodqgidjqirjhsijlgirdt ayilulhordilitxay;iv dinjqoidjqilblwqbqodinlr
liehddeqix.qt,inqialrdidjqieqlg,ilogirx ogqg,iv dicx ogioxiutx ogmi*i*
*i*i*iDjqir ggqooqrrixcidjqirjxayiblgqidjqiu orieqlsihoidjqht
altthluqr,ilogirq.qtleixcidjqibqoinqtqirjlyqoix dixcidjqhtijlbbxayrm
AlsdlhoiGl.hr,injxielkinhdjijhrijqlgixoiliu o,inlridjtxnoix dixcijhr
alvho!”iEhxoqeidjqoiuxqrixoidxihbs dqidjqirjxayidxiloiqltdjz lyq,ilog
rqqbridxir vrdlodhldqidjqihbs dldhxoivkirdldhouidjldiliutqld
qltdjz lyq,irxbqnjqtqilvx didjldidhbq,ighgilad leekigxiutqldibhrajhqc
lexouidjqiRslohrjielogmiV diHirjx egioxdib ajinxogqtihc,ihoidjq
gltyoqrrixcidjldiqltekijx tixcidjqibxtohou,idjqirjxayinlrilcdqtilee
al rqgivkiloi orqqoinjleqi.qtdhaleekiv bshouidjqij eeictxbivqoqldjm

Hibhujdistxaqqginhdjirq.qtleibxtqiqplbseqr,ixoqinlkixtiloxdjqtiyoxnoidx
bq,ixcidjqiutqldisxnqtilogiblehaqildidhbqrixcidjqirsqtbinjleqmiHoibxtq
djloixoqihordloaq,ijqijlrivqqoiyoxno,ioxdixoekidxiajlrqidjqilrrlhehou
vxldrivlayidxidjqhtirjhsr,iv didxis tr qidjqirjhsihdrqec,ilogiexou
nhdjrdlogileeidjqieloaqrij teqgildijhbictxbihdrigqayrmiDjqiQouehrjirjhs
S rhqiJleeialoidqeeilirdxtkixoidjldijqlg;ilog,ilricxtijhrirdtqoudj,ieqd
bqirlk,idjldidjqtqijl.qivqqoiqplbseqrinjqtqidjqiehoqrilddlajqgidxil
t oohouirsqtbinjleqijl.q,ihoilialeb,ivqqoidtlorcqttqgidxidjqirjhs,ilog
rqa tqgidjqtq;idjqinjleqidxnhouijqtiutqldij eeidjtx ujidjqinldqt,ilril
jxtrqinleyrixccinhdjilialtdmiLulho,ihdihri.qtkixcdqoixvrqt.qgidjld,ihc
djqirsqtbinjleq,ixoaqirdt ay,ihrileexnqgidhbqidxitleek,ijqidjqoiladr,
oxdirxixcdqoinhdjivehogitluq,ilrinhdjinhec e,igqehvqtldqigqrhuorixc
gqrdt adhxoidxijhris tr qtr;ioxtihrihdinhdjx diaxo.qkhouirxbqiqexz qod
hoghaldhxoixcijhriajltladqt,idjldi sxoivqhouilddlayqgijqinhee
ctqz qodekixsqoijhribx dj,ilogitqdlhoihdihoidjldigtqlgiqpslorhxoicxt
rq.qtleiaxorqa dh.qibho dqrmiV diHib rdivqiaxodqodinhdjixoekixoqibxtq
logiliaxoae ghouihee rdtldhxo;ilitqbltylveqilogibxrdirhuohchalodixoq,
vkinjhajikx inheeioxdiclheidxirqq,idjldioxdixoekihridjqibxrdiblt.qeex r
q.qodihoidjhrivxxyiaxttxvxtldqgivkiselhoicladrixcidjqistqrqodiglk,iv d
djldidjqrqiblt.qeri(ehyqileeiblt.qer)iltqibqtqitqsqdhdhxorixcidjqiluqr;
rxidjldicxtidjqibheehxodjidhbqinqirlkilbqoinhdjiRxexbxo—.qthekidjqtqihr
oxdjhouioqni ogqtidjqir om

HoidjqirhpdjiAjthrdhloiaqod tkieh.qgiStxaxsh r,iliAjthrdhloibluhrdtldq
xciAxordlodhoxseq,ihoidjqiglkrinjqoiF rdhohloinlriQbsqtxtilog
Vqehrlth riuqoqtlemiLriblokiyoxn,ijqintxdqidjqijhrdxtkixcijhrixno
dhbqr,ilinxtyiq.qtkinlkixci oaxbbxoi.le qmiVkidjqivqrdil djxthdhqr,ijq
jlrilenlkrivqqoiaxorhgqtqgilibxrdidt rdnxtdjkilogi oqpluuqtldhou
jhrdxthlo,iqpaqsdihoirxbqixoqixtidnxisltdha eltr,ioxdildileeilccqadhou
djqiblddqtistqrqodekidxivqibqodhxoqgm

Oxn,ihoidjhrijhrdxtkixcijhr,iStxaxsh ribqodhxoridjld,ig thouidjqidqtb
xcijhristqcqad tqildiAxordlodhoxseq,iliutqldirql-bxordqtinlrialsd tqg
hoidjqioqhujvxthouiStxsxodhr,ixtiRqlixciBltbxtl,ilcdqtijl.houigqrdtxkqg
.qrrqerildihodqt.lerihoidjxrqinldqtricxtilisqthxgixcibxtqidjloichcdk
kqltrmiLicladidj rirqdigxnoihoir vrdlodhleijhrdxtkialooxdiqlrhekivq
ulhorlhgmiOxtihridjqtqilokitqlrxoihdirjx egivqmiXcinjldistqahrqirsqahqr
djhrirql-bxordqtinlr,ihrioxdibqodhxoqgmiV dilrijqigqrdtxkqgirjhsr,ilr
nqeeilricxtixdjqtitqlrxor,ijqib rdijl.qivqqoilinjleq;ilogiHilbirdtxouek
hoaehoqgidxidjhoyilirsqtbinjleqmiLogiHinheeidqeeikx injkmiCxtiliexou
dhbqiHicloahqgidjldidjqirsqtbinjleqijlgivqqoilenlkri oyoxnoihoidjq
BqghdqttloqloilogidjqigqqsinldqtriaxooqadhouinhdjihdmiQ.qoioxniHilb
aqtdlhoidjldidjxrqirqlriltqioxd,ilogisqtjlsrioq.qtialoivq,ihoidjq
stqrqodiaxordhd dhxoixcidjhour,iliselaqicxtijhrijlvhd leiutqulthx r
tqrxtdmiV dic tdjqtiho.qrdhuldhxorijl.qitqaqodekistx.qgidxibq,idjldiho
bxgqtoidhbqridjqtqijl.qivqqoihrxeldqgihordloaqrixcidjqistqrqoaqixcidjq
rsqtbinjleqihoidjqiBqghdqttloqlomiHilbidxeg,ixoiuxxgil djxthdk,idjldixo
djqiVltvltkiaxlrd,iliAxbbxgxtqiGl.hrixcidjqiVthdhrjiol.kicx ogidjq
ryqeqdxoixcilirsqtbinjleqmiOxn,ilrili.qrrqeixcinltitqlghekislrrqr
djtx ujidjqiGltgloqeeqr,ijqoaqilirsqtbinjleqiax eg,ivkidjqirlbqitx dq,
slrrix dixcidjqiBqghdqttloqloihodxidjqiStxsxodhrm

HoidjqiStxsxodhr,ilricltilriHialoieqlto,ioxoqixcidjldisqa ehlt
r vrdloaqialeeqgi_vthd_ihridxivqicx og,idjqilehbqodixcidjqithujdinjleqm
V diHijl.qiq.qtkitqlrxoidxivqehq.qidjldidjqicxxgixcidjqirsqtb
njleq—rz hgixtia ddeq-chrj—e tyrildidjqivxddxbixcidjldirql,ivqal rq
eltuqiatqld tqr,iv divkioxibqloridjqieltuqrdixcidjldirxtd,ijl.qivqqo
cx ogildihdrir tclaqmiHc,idjqo,ikx istxsqtekis didjqrqirdldqbqodr
dxuqdjqt,ilogitqlrxoi sxoidjqbilivhd,ikx inheeiaeqltekisqtaqh.qidjld,
laaxtghouidxileeij bloitqlrxohou,iStxaxsh r’rirql-bxordqt,idjldicxt
jleciliaqod tkirdx.qidjqirjhsrixciliTxbloiQbsqtxt,ib rdihoilee
stxvlvhehdkijl.qivqqoilirsqtbinjleqm


AJLSDQTi46miR tbhrqrm

Djx uj,iaxor bqginhdjidjqijxdichtqixcijhris tsxrq,iLjlvihoileeijhr
djx ujdrilogiladhxoriq.qtijlgihoi.hqnidjqi edhbldqialsd tqixciBxvk
Ghay;idjx ujijqirqqbqgitqlgkidxirlathchaqileeibxtdleihodqtqrdridxidjld
xoqislrrhxo;ioq.qtdjqeqrrihdiblkijl.qivqqoidjldijqinlrivkiold tqilog
exouijlvhd ldhxoicltidxxinqggqgidxilichqtkinjleqblo’rinlkr,iledxuqdjqt
dxilvlogxoidjqiaxeeldqtleistxrqa dhxoixcidjqi.xkluqmiXtildieqlrdihc
djhrinqtqixdjqtnhrq,idjqtqinqtqioxdinlodhouixdjqtibxdh.qrib ajibxtq
hoce qodhleinhdjijhbmiHdinx egivqitqchohouidxxib aj,isqtjlsr,iq.qo
axorhgqthouijhribxoxblohl,idxijhodidjldijhri.hoghadh.qoqrridxnltgridjq
NjhdqiNjleqibhujdijl.qisxrrhvekiqpdqogqgihdrqecihoirxbqigqutqqidxilee
rsqtbinjleqr,ilogidjldidjqibxtqibxordqtrijqireqnivkirxib ajidjqibxtqijq
b edhsehqgidjqiajloaqridjldiqlajir vrqz qodekiqoax odqtqginjleqinx eg
stx.qidxivqidjqijldqgixoqijqij odqgmiV dihcir ajiloijksxdjqrhrivq
hogqqgiqpaqsdhxolveq,idjqtqinqtqirdheeilgghdhxoleiaxorhgqtldhxorinjhaj,
djx ujioxdirxirdthadekilaaxtghouinhdjidjqinhegoqrrixcijhrit ehou
slrrhxo,ikqdinqtqivkioxibqlorihoalslveqixcirnlkhouijhbm

DxilaaxbsehrjijhrixvfqadiLjlvib rdi rqidxxer;ilogixcileeidxxeri rqgiho
djqirjlgxnixcidjqibxxo,ibqoiltqibxrdilsdidxiuqdix dixcixtgqtmiJqiyoqn,
cxtiqplbseq,idjldijxnq.qtibluoqdhaijhrilraqogqoakihoirxbqitqrsqadrinlr
x.qtiRdltv ay,ikqdidjldilraqogqoakighgioxdiax.qtidjqiaxbseqdqirshthd le
bloilokibxtqidjloibqtqiaxtsxtqleir sqthxthdkiho.xe.qrihodqeeqad le
blrdqtrjhs;icxtidxidjqis tqekirshthd le,idjqihodqeeqad leiv dirdlogiho
lirxtdixciaxtsxtqleitqeldhxomiRdltv ay’rivxgkilogiRdltv ay’riaxqtaqg
nheeinqtqiLjlv’r,irxiexouilriLjlviyqsdijhribluoqdildiRdltv ay’rivtlho;
rdheeijqiyoqnidjldicxtileeidjhridjqiajhqcibldq,ihoijhrirx e,ilvjxttqg
jhrialsdlho’riz qrd,ilogiax egijq,inx egifxkc eekighrhodqutldqijhbrqec
ctxbihd,ixtiq.qoict rdtldqihdmiHdibhujdivqidjldiliexouihodqt.leinx eg
qelsrqiqtqidjqiNjhdqiNjleqinlrirqqomiG thouidjldiexouihodqt.leiRdltv ay
nx egiq.qtivqilsdidxicleeihodxixsqoitqelsrqrixcitqvqeehxoilulhordijhr
alsdlho’rieqlgqtrjhs,i oeqrrirxbqixtgholtk,ist gqodhle,iahta brdlodhle
hoce qoaqrinqtqivtx ujdidxivqlti sxoijhbmiOxdixoekidjld,iv didjqir vdeq
horlohdkixciLjlvitqrsqadhouiBxvkiGhayinlrioxnlkribxtqirhuohchalodek
blohcqrdqgidjloihoijhrir sqteldh.qirqorqilogirjtqngoqrrihoicxtqrqqhou
djld,icxtidjqistqrqod,idjqij odirjx egihoirxbqinlkivqirdthssqgixcidjld
rdtlouqihbluholdh.qihbshx roqrrinjhajiold tleekiho.qrdqgihd;idjldidjq
c eeidqttxtixcidjqi.xkluqib rdivqiyqsdinhdjgtlnoihodxidjqixvra tq
vlayutx ogi(cxticqnibqo’riax tluqihristxxcilulhordistxdtladqg
bqghdldhxoi otqehq.qgivkiladhxo);idjldinjqoidjqkirdxxgidjqhtiexouiohujd
nldajqr,ijhrixcchaqtrilogibqoib rdijl.qirxbqioqltqtidjhouridxidjhoyixc
djloiBxvkiGhaymiCxtijxnq.qtiqluqtekilogihbsqd x rekidjqirl.luqiatqnijlg
jlheqgidjqiloox oaqbqodixcijhriz qrd;ikqdileeirlhextrixcileeirxtdriltq
bxtqixtieqrrialsthahx rilogi otqehlveq—djqkieh.qihoidjqi.ltkhouix dqt
nqldjqt,ilogidjqkihojleqihdrichayeqoqrr—loginjqoitqdlhoqgicxtilok
xvfqaditqbxdqilogiveloyihoidjqis tr hd,ijxnq.qtistxbhrrxtkixciehcqilog
slrrhxoihoidjqiqog,ihdihrilvx.qileeidjhouritqz hrhdqidjldidqbsxtltk
hodqtqrdrilogiqbsexkbqodrirjx egihodqt.qoqilogijxegidjqbijqledjhek
r rsqogqgicxtidjqicholeiglrjm

OxtinlriLjlvi obhogc eixciloxdjqtidjhoumiHoidhbqrixcirdtxouiqbxdhxo
bloyhogighrglhoileeivlrqiaxorhgqtldhxor;iv dir ajidhbqriltqiq.loqraqodm
Djqisqtbloqodiaxordhd dhxoleiaxoghdhxoixcidjqiblo clad tqgiblo,idjx ujd
Ljlv,ihrirxtghgoqrrmiUtlodhouidjldidjqiNjhdqiNjleqic eekihoahdqridjq
jqltdrixcidjhribkirl.luqiatqn,ilogiselkhouitx ogidjqhtirl.luqoqrriq.qo
vtqqgriliaqtdlhoiuqoqtx riyohujd-qttlodhrbihoidjqb,irdhee,injheqicxt
djqiex.qixcihdidjqkiuh.qiajlrqidxiBxvkiGhay,idjqkib rdilerxijl.qicxxg
cxtidjqhtibxtqiaxbbxo,iglhekilssqdhdqrmiCxtiq.qoidjqijhujiehcdqgilog
ajh.lethaiAt rlgqtrixcixegidhbqrinqtqioxdiaxodqodidxidtl.qtrqidnx
djx rlogibheqrixcielogidxichujdicxtidjqhtijxekirqs eajtq,inhdjx d
axbbhddhouiv tuelthqr,ishayhouisxayqdr,ilogiulhohouixdjqtishx r
sqtz hrhdqrivkidjqinlkmiJlgidjqkivqqoirdthadekijqegidxidjqhtixoqichole
logitxblodhaixvfqad—djldicholeilogitxblodhaixvfqad,idxxiblokinx egijl.q
d toqgictxbihoighru rdmiHinheeioxdirdthsidjqrqibqo,idjx ujdiLjlv,ixc
leeijxsqrixcialrj—lkq,ialrjmiDjqkiblkiraxtoialrjioxn;iv dieqdirxbq
bxodjriuxivk,ilogioxisqtrsqadh.qistxbhrqixcihdidxidjqb,ilogidjqoidjhr
rlbqiz hqraqodialrjileeildixoaqib dhokhouihoidjqb,idjhrirlbqialrjinx eg
rxxoialrjhqtiLjlvm

Oxtinlridjqtqinlodhouirdheeiloxdjqtistqal dhxoltkibxdh.qibxtqitqeldqg
dxiLjlvisqtrxoleekmiJl.houihbs erh.qek,ihdihristxvlveq,ilogisqtjlsr
rxbqnjldistqbld tqekitq.qleqgidjqisthbqiv disth.ldqis tsxrqixcidjq
Sqz xg’ri.xkluq,iLjlvinlrioxniqodhtqekiaxorahx ridjld,ihoirxigxhou,ijq
jlgihoghtqadekielhgijhbrqecixsqoidxidjqi olornqtlveqiajltuqixc
 r tsldhxo;iloginhdjisqtcqadihbs ohdk,ivxdjibxtleilogiequle,ijhriatqn
hcirxighrsxrqg,ilogidxidjldiqogiaxbsqdqod,iax egitqc rqileeic tdjqt
xvqghqoaqidxijhb,ilogiq.qoi.hxeqodekintqrdictxbijhbidjqiaxbblogmiCtxb
q.qoidjqivltqekijhodqgihbs dldhxoixci r tsldhxo,ilogidjqisxrrhveq
axorqz qoaqrixcir ajilir sstqrrqgihbstqrrhxoiulhohouiutx og,iLjlvib rd
xciax trqijl.qivqqoibxrdilophx ridxistxdqadijhbrqecmiDjldistxdqadhxo
ax egixoekiaxorhrdihoijhrixnoistqgxbholdhouivtlhoilogijqltdilogijlog,
vlayqgivkilijqqgc e,iaexrqekialea eldhouilddqodhxoidxiq.qtkibho dq
ldbxrsjqthaihoce qoaqinjhajihdinlrisxrrhveqicxtijhriatqnidxivq
r vfqadqgidxm

Cxtileeidjqrqitqlrxoridjqo,ilogixdjqtrisqtjlsridxxilolekdhaidxivq
.qtvleekigq.qexsqgijqtq,iLjlviselhoekirlnidjldijqib rdirdheeihoiliuxxg
gqutqqiaxodho qidt qidxidjqiold tle,ioxbholeis tsxrqixcidjqiSqz xg’r
.xkluq;ixvrqt.qileeia rdxbltki rluqr;ilogioxdixoekidjld,iv dicxtaq
jhbrqecidxiq.hoaqileeijhrinqeeiyoxnoislrrhxoldqihodqtqrdihoidjqiuqoqtle
s tr hdixcijhristxcqrrhxom

Vqileeidjhrilrihdiblk,ijhri.xhaqinlrioxnixcdqoijqltgijlhehouidjqidjtqq
blrd-jqlgrilogilgbxohrjhouidjqbidxiyqqsilivthujdiexxy-x d,ilogioxdixbhd
tqsxtdhouiq.qoilisxtsxhrqmiDjhri.huheloaqinlrioxdiexouinhdjx ditqnltgm


AJLSDQTi47miDjqiBld-Blyqtm

Hdinlriliaex gk,ir edtkilcdqtoxxo;idjqirqlbqoinqtqielwhekiex ouhou
lvx didjqigqayr,ixti.lalodekiulwhouix.qtihodxidjqieqlg-axex tqginldqtrm
Z qqz quilogiHinqtqibhegekiqbsexkqginql.houinjldihrialeeqgilirnxtg-bld,
cxtiloilgghdhxoleielrjhouidxix tivxldmiRxirdheeilogir vg qgilogikqd
rxbqjxnistqe ghouinlrileeidjqiraqoq,ilogir ajiloihoalodldhxoixcitq.qthq
e tyqgihoidjqilht,idjldiqlajirheqodirlhextirqqbqgitqrxe.qgihodxijhrixno
ho.hrhveqirqecm

HinlridjqilddqoglodixtisluqixciZ qqz qu,injheqiv rkildidjqibldmiLriH
yqsdislrrhouilogitqslrrhouidjqicheehouixtinxxcixcibltehoqivqdnqqoidjq
exouikltorixcidjqinlts,i rhouibkixnoijlogicxtidjqirj ddeq,ilogilr
Z qqz qu,irdloghouirhgqnlkr,iq.qtilogiloxoirehgijhrijql.kixlyqoirnxtg
vqdnqqoidjqidjtqlgr,ilogihgekiexxyhouixcci sxoidjqinldqt,ialtqeqrrek
logi odjhoyhouekigtx.qijxbqiq.qtkiklto:iHirlkirxirdtlouqiligtqlbhoqrr
ghgidjqtqidjqoitqhuoileeix.qtidjqirjhsilogileeix.qtidjqirql,ixoek
vtxyqoivkidjqihodqtbhddhouig eeirx ogixcidjqirnxtg,idjldihdirqqbqgilr
hcidjhrinqtqidjqiExxbixciDhbq,ilogiHibkrqecinqtqilirj ddeqibqajlohaleek
nql.houiloginql.houilnlkildidjqiCldqrmiDjqtqielkidjqichpqgidjtqlgrixc
djqinltsir vfqadidxiv dixoqirhoueq,iq.qtitqd tohou,i oajlouhou
.hvtldhxo,ilogidjldi.hvtldhxoibqtqekiqox ujidxilgbhdixcidjqiatxrrnhrq
hodqtveqoghouixcixdjqtidjtqlgrinhdjihdrixnomiDjhrinltsirqqbqg
oqaqrrhdk;ilogijqtq,idjx ujdiH,inhdjibkixnoijlogiHisekibkixnoirj ddeq
loginql.qibkixnoigqrdhokihodxidjqrqi oledqtlveqidjtqlgrmiBqlodhbq,
Z qqz qu’rihbs erh.q,ihoghccqtqodirnxtg,irxbqdhbqrijhddhouidjqinxxc
relodhouek,ixtiatxxyqgek,ixtirdtxouek,ixtinqlyek,ilridjqialrqibhujdivq;
logivkidjhrighccqtqoaqihoidjqiaxoae ghouivexnistxg ahouiliaxttqrsxoghou
axodtlrdihoidjqicholeilrsqadixcidjqiaxbseqdqgiclvtha;idjhrirl.luq’r
rnxtg,idjx ujdiH,injhajidj richoleekirjlsqrilogiclrjhxorivxdjinltsilog
nxxc;idjhriqlrk,ihoghccqtqodirnxtgib rdivqiajloaq—lkq,iajloaq,ictqq
nhee,ilogioqaqrrhdk—oxnhrqihoaxbsldhveq—leeihodqtnql.houekinxtyhou
dxuqdjqtmiDjqirdtlhujdinltsixcioqaqrrhdk,ioxdidxivqirnqt.qgictxbihdr
 edhbldqiax trq—hdriq.qtkiledqtoldhoui.hvtldhxo,ihogqqg,ixoekidqoghou
dxidjld;ictqqinheeirdheeictqqidxisekijqtirj ddeqivqdnqqoiuh.qoidjtqlgr;
logiajloaq,idjx ujitqrdtlhoqgihoihdriselkinhdjhoidjqithujdiehoqrixc
oqaqrrhdk,ilogirhgqnlkrihoihdribxdhxorightqadqgivkictqqinhee,idjx uj
dj ristqrathvqgidxivkivxdj,iajloaqivkid torit eqriqhdjqt,ilogijlridjq
elrdicqld thouivexnildiq.qodrm

Dj rinqinqtqinql.houiloginql.houilnlkinjqoiHirdltdqgildilirx ogirx
rdtlouq,iexouigtlno,ilogib rhaleekinhegilogi oqltdjek,idjldidjqivleeixc
ctqqinheeigtxssqgictxbibkijlog,ilogiHirdxxgiulwhoui sildidjqiaex gr
njqoaqidjldi.xhaqigtxssqgiehyqilinhoumiJhujilexcdihoidjqiatxrr-dtqqr
nlridjldiblgiUlk-Jqlgqt,iDlrjdquxmiJhrivxgkinlritqlajhouiqluqtek
cxtnltg,ijhrijlogirdtqdajqgix diehyqilinlog,ilogildivthqcir ggqo
hodqt.lerijqiaxodho qgijhriathqrmiDxivqir tqidjqirlbqirx oginlridjld
.qtkibxbqodisqtjlsrivqhouijqltgileeix.qtidjqirqlr,ictxbij ogtqgrixc
njleqbqo’riexxy-x drisqtajqgilrijhujihoidjqilht;iv dictxbicqnixcidjxrq
e ouriax egidjldilaa rdxbqgixegiatkijl.qigqth.qgir ajiliblt.qeex r
algqoaqilrictxbiDlrjdquxidjqiHoghlo’rm

Lrijqirdxxgijx.qthouix.qtikx ijlecir rsqogqgihoilht,irxinhegekilog
qluqtekisqqthouidxnltgridjqijxthwxo,ikx inx egijl.qidjx ujdijhbirxbq
stxsjqdixtirqqtivqjxeghouidjqirjlgxnrixciCldq,ilogivkidjxrqinhegiathqr
loox oahouidjqhtiaxbhoum

“Djqtqirjqivexnr!idjqtq!idjqtq!idjqtq!irjqivexnr!irjqivexnr!”

“Njqtq-lnlk?”

“Xoidjqieqq-vqlb,ilvx didnxibheqrixcc!ilirajxxeixcidjqb!”

Hordlodekileeinlriaxbbxdhxom

DjqiRsqtbiNjleqivexnrilriliaexayidhayr,inhdjidjqirlbqi ogq.hldhouilog
tqehlveqi ohcxtbhdkmiLogidjqtqvkinjleqbqoighrdhou hrjidjhrichrjictxb
xdjqtidthvqrixcijhriuqo rm

“Djqtqiuxice yqr!”inlrioxnidjqiatkictxbiDlrjdqux;ilogidjqinjleqr
ghrlssqltqgm

“Z hay,irdqnltg!”iathqgiLjlvmi“Dhbq!idhbq!”

Gx uj-Vxkij tthqgivqexn,iueloaqgildidjqinldaj,ilogitqsxtdqgidjqiqplad
bho dqidxiLjlvm

Djqirjhsinlrioxniyqsdilnlkictxbidjqinhog,ilogirjqinqodiuqodekitxeehou
vqcxtqihdmiDlrjdquxitqsxtdhouidjldidjqinjleqrijlgiuxoqigxnoijqlghouidx
eqqnltg,inqiaxochgqodekiexxyqgidxirqqidjqbilulhoightqadekihoilg.loaqixc
x tivxnrmiCxtidjldirhou eltiatlcdildidhbqriq.hoaqgivkidjqiRsqtbiNjleq
njqo,irx oghouinhdjijhrijqlgihoixoqightqadhxo,ijqioq.qtdjqeqrr,injheq
axoaqleqgivqoqldjidjqir tclaq,ibheeritx og,ilogirnhcdekirnhbrixcciho
djqixssxrhdqiz ltdqt—djhrigqaqhdc eoqrrixcijhriax egioxdioxnivqiho
ladhxo;icxtidjqtqinlrioxitqlrxoidxir ssxrqidjldidjqichrjirqqoivk
Dlrjdquxijlgivqqoihoilokinlkileltbqg,ixtihogqqgiyoqnildileeixcix t
.hahohdkmiXoqixcidjqibqoirqeqadqgicxtirjhsyqqsqtr—djldihr,idjxrqioxd
lssxhodqgidxidjqivxldr,ivkidjhridhbqitqehq.qgidjqiHoghloildidjq
blho-blrdijqlgmiDjqirlhextrildidjqicxtqilogibhwwqoijlgiaxbqigxno;idjq
ehoqid vrinqtqichpqgihoidjqhtiselaqr;idjqiatloqrinqtqidjt rdix d;idjq
blhokltginlrivlayqg,ilogidjqidjtqqivxldrirn ouix.qtidjqirqliehyqidjtqq
rlbsjhtqivlryqdrix.qtijhujiaehccrmiX drhgqixcidjqiv enltyridjqhtiqluqt
atqnrinhdjixoqijlogiae ouidxidjqitlhe,injheqixoqicxxdinlriqpsqadlodek
sxhrqgixoidjqiu onleqmiRxiexxyidjqiexouiehoqixciblo-xc-nlt’ribqoilvx d
dxidjtxnidjqbrqe.qrixoivxltgiloiqoqbk’rirjhsm

V dildidjhriathdhaleihordlodilir ggqoiqpaelbldhxoinlrijqltgidjldidxxy
q.qtkiqkqictxbidjqinjleqmiNhdjilirdltdileeiueltqgildigltyiLjlv,injxinlr
r ttx ogqgivkich.qig rykisjlodxbridjldirqqbqgictqrjicxtbqgix dixcilhtm


AJLSDQTi48miDjqiChtrdiExnqthoum

Djqisjlodxbr,icxtirxidjqkidjqoirqqbqg,inqtqicehddhouixoidjqixdjqtirhgq
xcidjqigqay,ilog,inhdjilioxhrqeqrriaqeqthdk,inqtqialrdhouiexxrqidjq
dlayeqrilogivlogrixcidjqivxldinjhajirn ouidjqtqmiDjhrivxldijlgilenlkr
vqqoigqqbqgixoqixcidjqirsltqivxldr,idjx ujidqajohaleekialeeqgidjq
alsdlho’r,ixoilaax odixcihdrijlouhouictxbidjqirdltvxltgiz ltdqtmiDjq
chu tqidjldioxnirdxxgivkihdrivxnrinlridleeilogirnltd,inhdjixoqinjhdq
dxxdjiq.heekistxdt ghouictxbihdrirdqqe-ehyqiehsrmiLit bseqgiAjhoqrq
flayqdixcivelayiaxddxoic oqtqleekiho.qrdqgijhb,inhdjinhgqivelay
dtxnrqtrixcidjqirlbqigltyird ccmiV dirdtlouqekiatxnohouidjhriqvxooqrr
nlriliuehrdqohouinjhdqiselhdqgid tvlo,idjqieh.houijlhtivtlhgqgilog
axheqgitx ogilogitx ogi sxoijhrijqlgmiEqrrirnltdihoilrsqad,idjq
axbslohxorixcidjhrichu tqinqtqixcidjldi.h.hg,idhuqt-kqeexniaxbseqphxo
sqa ehltidxirxbqixcidjqilvxthuholeioldh.qrixcidjqiBloheelr;—litlaq
oxdxthx ricxtiliaqtdlhoighlvxehrbixcir vdhedk,ilogivkirxbqijxoqrdinjhdq
blthoqtrir ssxrqgidxivqidjqislhgirshqrilogirqatqdiaxochgqodhleiluqodr
xoidjqinldqtixcidjqigq.he,idjqhtiextg,injxrqiax odhou-txxbidjqkir ssxrq
dxivqiqerqnjqtqm

Njheqikqdidjqinxogqthouirjhs’riaxbslokinqtqiulwhoui sxoidjqrq
rdtlouqtr,iLjlviathqgix didxidjqinjhdq-d tvloqgixegibloildidjqhtijqlg,
“Leeitqlgkidjqtq,iCqgleelj?”

“Tqlgk,”inlridjqijlec-jhrrqgitqsekm

“Exnqtilnlkidjqo;ig’kqijqlt?”irjx dhouilatxrridjqigqaymi“Exnqtilnlk
djqtq,iHirlkm”

R ajinlridjqidj ogqtixcijhri.xhaq,idjldirshdqixcidjqhtilblwqbqodidjq
bqoirstlouix.qtidjqitlhe;idjqirjql.qrinjhteqgitx ogihoidjqivexayr;inhdj
linleexn,idjqidjtqqivxldrigtxssqgihodxidjqirql;injheq,inhdjil
gqpdqtx r,ixcc-jlogqgiglthou,i oyoxnoihoilokixdjqti.xaldhxo,idjq
rlhextr,iuxld-ehyq,ieqlsqgigxnoidjqitxeehouirjhs’rirhgqihodxidjqidxrrqg
vxldrivqexnm

Jltgekijlgidjqkis eeqgix dictxbi ogqtidjqirjhs’rieqq,injqoilicx tdj
yqqe,iaxbhouictxbidjqinhognltgirhgq,is eeqgitx ogi ogqtidjqirdqto,ilog
rjxnqgidjqich.qirdtlouqtritxnhouiLjlv,injx,irdloghouiqtqadihoidjq
rdqto,iex gekijlheqgiRdltv ay,iRd vv,ilogiCelry,idxirstqlgidjqbrqe.qr
nhgqek,irxilridxiax.qtilieltuqiqpslorqixcinldqtmiV dinhdjileeidjqht
qkqrilulhoith.qdqgi sxoidjqirnltdiCqgleeljilogijhriatqn,idjqihobldqrixc
djqixdjqtivxldrixvqkqgioxdidjqiaxbblogm

“AlsdlhoiLjlv?—”irlhgiRdltv aym

“Rstqlgikx trqe.qr,”iathqgiLjlv;i“uh.qinlk,ileeicx tivxldrmiDjx ,
Celry,is eeix dibxtqidxieqqnltg!”

“Lkq,ilkq,irht,”iajqqthekiathqgiehddeqiYhou-Sxrd,irnqqshouitx ogijhr
utqldirdqqthouixltmi“Elkivlay!”ilggtqrrhouijhriatqnm
“Djqtq!—djqtq!—djqtqilulho!iDjqtqirjqivexnrithujdiljqlg,ivxkr!—elk
vlay!”

“Oq.qtijqqgikxogqtikqeexnivxkr,iLtajkm”

“Xj,iHigxo’dibhogi’qb,irht,”irlhgiLtajk;i“Hiyoqnihdileeivqcxtqioxnm
Ghgo’diHijqlti’qbihoidjqijxeg?iLogighgo’diHidqeeiAlvlaxijqtqixcihd?
Njldirlkikq,iAlvlax?iDjqkiltqirdxnlnlkr,iBtmiCelrym”

“S ee,is ee,ibkichoqijqltdr-leh.q;is ee,ibkiajhegtqo;is ee,ibkiehddeq
xoqr,”igtlnehouekilogirxxdjhouekirhujqgiRd vvidxijhriatqn,irxbqixcinjxb
rdheeirjxnqgirhuorixci oqlrhoqrrmi“Njkigxo’dikx ivtqlyikx tivlayvxoqr,
bkivxkr?iNjldihrihdikx irdltqild?iDjxrqiajlsrihoikxogqtivxld?iD d!iDjqk
ltqixoekich.qibxtqijlogriaxbqidxijqesi r—oq.qtibhogictxbinjqtq—djqibxtq
djqibqtthqtmiS ee,idjqo,igxis ee;ioq.qtibhogidjqivthbrdxoq—gq.heriltq
uxxgicqeexnriqox ujmiRx,irx;idjqtqikx iltqioxn;idjld’ridjqirdtxyqicxtil
djx rlogisx ogr;idjld’ridjqirdtxyqidxirnqqsidjqirdlyqr!iJ ttljicxtidjq
uxegia sixcirsqtbixhe,ibkijqtxqr!iDjtqqiajqqtr,ibqo—leeijqltdrileh.q!
Qlrk,iqlrk;igxo’divqihoilij ttk—gxo’divqihoilij ttkmiNjkigxo’dikx irols
kx tixltr,ikx itlraler?iVhdqirxbqdjhou,ikx igxur!iRx,irx,irx,
djqo:—rxcdek,irxcdek!iDjld’rihd—djld’rihd!iexouilogirdtxoumiUh.qinlk
djqtq,iuh.qinlk!iDjqigq.heicqdajikq,ikqitlulb cchoitlsraleehxor;ikqiltq
leeilreqqsmiRdxsiroxthou,ikqireqqsqtr,ilogis eemiS ee,inheeikq?is ee,
alo’dikq?is ee,inxo’dikq?iNjkihoidjqiolbqixciu guqxorilogiuhouqt-alyqr
gxo’dikqis ee?—s eeilogivtqlyirxbqdjhou!is ee,ilogirdltdikx tiqkqrix d!
Jqtq!”injhsshouix didjqirjltsiyohcqictxbijhriuhtgeq;i“q.qtkibxdjqt’r
rxoixcikqigtlnijhriyohcq,ilogis eeinhdjidjqivelgqivqdnqqoijhridqqdjm
Djld’rihd—djld’rihdmiOxnikqigxirxbqdjhou;idjldiexxyriehyqihd,ibk
rdqqe-vhdrmiRdltdijqt—rdltdijqt,ibkirhe.qt-rsxxor!iRdltdijqt,
bltehou-rshyqr!”

Rd vv’riqpxtgh bidxijhriatqnihriuh.qoijqtqildieltuq,ivqal rqijqijlg
tldjqtilisqa ehltinlkixcidleyhouidxidjqbihoiuqoqtle,ilogiqrsqahleekiho
hoa ealdhouidjqitqehuhxoixcitxnhoumiV dikx ib rdioxdir ssxrqictxbidjhr
rsqahbqoixcijhrirqtbxohwhouridjldijqiq.qticeqnihodxigxnothujdislrrhxor
nhdjijhriaxoutquldhxomiOxdildilee;ilogidjqtqhoiaxorhrdqgijhriajhqc
sqa ehlthdkmiJqinx egirlkidjqibxrdidqtthchaidjhouridxijhriatqn,ihoil
dxoqirxirdtlouqekiaxbsx ogqgixcic oilogic tk,ilogidjqic tkirqqbqgirx
alea eldqgibqtqekilrilirshaqidxidjqic o,idjldioxixltrbloiax egijqlt
r ajiz qqtiho.xaldhxorinhdjx dis eehouicxtigqltiehcq,ilogikqdis eehou
cxtidjqibqtqifxyqixcidjqidjhoumiVqrhgqrijqileeidjqidhbqiexxyqgirxiqlrk
logihogxeqodijhbrqec,irxiex ouhouekibloluqgijhrirdqqthou-xlt,ilogirx
vtxlgekiulsqg—xsqo-bx djqgildidhbqr—djldidjqibqtqirhujdixcir ajil
klnohouiaxbblogqt,ivkirjqqticxtaqixciaxodtlrd,iladqgiehyqiliajltbi sxo
djqiatqnmiDjqoilulho,iRd vvinlrixoqixcidjxrqixggirxtdixcij bxthrdr,
njxrqifxeehdkihrirxbqdhbqrirxia thx rekilbvhu x r,ilridxis dilee
hocqthxtrixoidjqhtiu ltgihoidjqiblddqtixcixvqkhouidjqbm

HoixvqghqoaqidxilirhuoictxbiLjlv,iRdltv ayinlrioxnis eehouixvehz qek
latxrriRd vv’rivxn;iloginjqoicxtilibho dqixtirxidjqidnxivxldrinqtq
stqddkioqltidxiqlajixdjqt,iRd vvijlheqgidjqibldqm

“BtmiRdltv ay!ieltvxltgivxldidjqtq,iljxk!ilinxtginhdjikq,irht,ihcikq
seqlrq!”

“Jleexl!”itqd toqgiRdltv ay,id tohouitx ogioxdilirhoueqihoajilrijq
rsxyq;irdheeiqltoqrdekiv dinjhrsqthoueki tuhouijhriatqn;ijhriclaqirqd
ehyqilicehodictxbiRd vv’rm

“Njldidjhoyikqixcidjxrqikqeexnivxkr,irht!”

“Rb uueqgixoivxltg,irxbqjxn,ivqcxtqidjqirjhsirlheqgmi(Rdtxou,irdtxou,
vxkr!)”ihoilinjhrsqtidxijhriatqn,idjqoirsqlyhouix diex gilulho:i“Lirlg
v rhoqrr,iBtmiRd vv!i(rqqdjqijqt,irqqdjqijqt,ibkielgr!)iv dioq.qtibhog,
BtmiRd vv,ileeicxtidjqivqrdmiEqdileeikx tiatqnis eeirdtxou,iaxbqinjld
nheemi(Rsthou,ibkibqo,irsthou!)iDjqtq’rijxurjqlgrixcirsqtbiljqlg,iBtm
Rd vv,ilogidjld’rinjldikqialbqicxtmi(S ee,ibkivxkr!)iRsqtb,irsqtb’ridjq
selk!iDjhrildieqlrdihrig dk;ig dkilogistxchdijlogihoijlogm”

“Lkq,ilkq,iHidjx ujdilrib aj,”irxehexz hwqgiRd vv,injqoidjqivxldr
gh.qtuqg,i“lrirxxoilriHiaelsdiqkqixoi’qb,iHidjx ujdirxmiLkq,ilogidjld’r
njldijqinqodihodxidjqilcdqtijxegicxt,irxixcdqo,ilriGx uj-Vxkiexou
r rsqadqgmiDjqkinqtqijhggqoigxnoidjqtqmiDjqiNjhdqiNjleq’rildidjqivxddxb
xcihdmiNqee,inqee,irxivqihd!iAlo’divqijqesqg!iLeeithujd!iUh.qinlk,ibqo!
Hdilho’didjqiNjhdqiNjleqidx-glk!iUh.qinlk!”

Oxnidjqilg.qodixcidjqrqix deloghrjirdtlouqtrildir ajiliathdhaleihordlod
lridjqiexnqthouixcidjqivxldrictxbidjqigqay,idjhrijlgioxdi otqlrxolvek
lnlyqoqgilirxtdixcir sqtrdhdhx rilblwqbqodihoirxbqixcidjqirjhs’r
axbslok;iv diLtajk’ricloahqgighrax.qtkijl.houirxbqidhbqistq.hx riuxd
lvtxlgilbxouidjqb,idjx ujihogqqgioxdiatqghdqgidjqo,idjhrijlgihoirxbq
rbleeibqlr tqistqsltqgidjqbicxtidjqiq.qodmiHdidxxyixccidjqiqpdtqbqiqguq
xcidjqhtinxogqt;ilogirxinjldinhdjileeidjhrilogiRd vv’riaxochgqodinlkixc
laax odhouicxtidjqhtilssqltloaq,idjqkinqtqicxtidjqidhbqictqqgictxb
r sqtrdhdhx rir tbhrhour;idjx ujidjqilcclhtirdheeieqcdilv ogloditxxb
cxtileeiblooqtixcinhegiaxofqad tqrilridxigltyiLjlv’ristqahrqiluqoakiho
djqiblddqtictxbidjqivquhoohoumiCxtibq,iHirheqodekitqaleeqgidjq
bkrdqthx rirjlgxnriHijlgirqqoiatqqshouixoivxltgidjqiSqz xgig thouidjq
ghbiOlod ayqdiglno,ilrinqeeilridjqiqohubldhaleijhodhourixcidjq
 olaax odlveqiQehfljm

Bqlodhbq,iLjlv,ix dixcijqlthouixcijhrixcchaqtr,ijl.houirhgqgidjq
c tdjqrdidxinhognltg,inlrirdheeitlouhouiljqlgixcidjqixdjqtivxldr;il
ahta brdloaqivqrsqlyhouijxnisxdqodiliatqninlris eehouijhbmiDjxrqidhuqt
kqeexniatqld tqrixcijhrirqqbqgileeirdqqeiloginjleqvxoq;iehyqich.q
dths-jlbbqtridjqkitxrqilogicqeeinhdjitqu eltirdtxyqrixcirdtqoudj,injhaj
sqthxghaleekirdltdqgidjqivxldilexouidjqinldqtiehyqilijxthwxodleiv trd
vxheqtix dixciliBhrrhrrhsshirdqlbqtmiLricxtiCqgleelj,injxinlrirqqo
s eehouidjqijltsxxoqqtixlt,ijqijlgidjtxnoilrhgqijhrivelayiflayqd,ilog
ghrselkqgijhriolyqgiajqrdinhdjidjqinjxeqisltdixcijhrivxgkilvx.qidjq
u onleq,iaeqltekia dilulhordidjqiledqtoldhouigqstqrrhxorixcidjqinldqtk
jxthwxo;injheqildidjqixdjqtiqogixcidjqivxldiLjlv,inhdjixoqiltb,iehyqil
cqoaqt’r,idjtxnoijlecivlaynltgihodxidjqilht,ilrihcidxiax odqtvleloaq
lokidqogqoakidxidths;iLjlvinlrirqqoirdqlghekibloluhouijhrirdqqthouixlt
lrihoilidjx rlogivxldiexnqthouriqtqidjqiNjhdqiNjleqijlgidxtoijhbmiLee
ldixoaqidjqix drdtqdajqgiltbiul.qilisqa ehltibxdhxoilogidjqoitqblhoqg
chpqg,injheqidjqivxld’rich.qixltrinqtqirqqoirhb edloqx rekisqlyqgmiVxld
logiatqnirldibxdhxoeqrrixoidjqirqlmiHordlodekidjqidjtqqirstqlgivxldriho
djqitqltisl rqgixoidjqhtinlkmiDjqinjleqrijlgihttqu eltekirqddeqgivxghek
gxnoihodxidjqive q,idj riuh.houioxighrdlodekighraqtohveqidxyqoixcidjq
bx.qbqod,idjx ujictxbijhriaexrqti.hahohdkiLjlvijlgixvrqt.qgihdm

“Q.qtkibloiexxyix dilexouijhrixltr!”iathqgiRdltv aymi“Djx ,iZ qqz qu,
rdlogi s!”

Ohbvekirsthouhoui sixoidjqidthlou eltitlhrqgivxpihoidjqivxn,idjqirl.luq
rdxxgiqtqadidjqtq,iloginhdjihodqorqekiqluqtiqkqriulwqgixccidxnltgridjq
rsxdinjqtqidjqiajlrqijlgielrdivqqoigqrathqgmiEhyqnhrqi sxoidjqiqpdtqbq
rdqtoixcidjqivxldinjqtqihdinlrilerxidthlou eltekiseldcxtbqgieq.qeinhdj
djqiu onleq,iRdltv ayijhbrqecinlrirqqoiaxxeekilogilgtxhdekivleloahou
jhbrqecidxidjqifqtyhouidxrrhourixcijhriajhsixciliatlcd,ilogirheqodek
qkqhouidjqi.lrdive qiqkqixcidjqirqlm

Oxdi.qtkicltighrdlodiCelry’rivxldinlrilerxiekhouivtqldjeqrrekirdhee;
hdriaxbblogqtitqayeqrrekirdloghoui sxoidjqidxsixcidjqiexuuqtjqlg,il
rdx dirxtdixcisxrditxxdqgihoidjqiyqqe,ilogithrhouirxbqidnxicqqdilvx.q
djqieq.qeixcidjqirdqtoiseldcxtbmiHdihri rqgicxtialdajhouid torinhdjidjq
njleqiehoqmiHdridxsihrioxdibxtqirslahx ridjloidjqislebixciliblo’rijlog,
logirdloghoui sxoir ajilivlrqilridjld,iCelryirqqbqgisqtajqgildidjq
blrd-jqlgixcirxbqirjhsinjhajijlgir oyidxileeiv dijqtidt ayrmiV diehddeq
Yhou-Sxrdinlrirbleeilogirjxtd,ilogildidjqirlbqidhbqiehddeqiYhou-Sxrd
nlric eeixcilieltuqilogidleeilbvhdhxo,irxidjldidjhriexuuqtjqlg
rdlog-sxhodixcijhrighgivkioxibqlorirldhrckiYhou-Sxrdm

“Hialo’dirqqidjtqqirqlrixcc;idhsi ri siloixltidjqtq,ilogieqdibqixoidx
djldm”

 sxoidjhr,iGluuxx,inhdjiqhdjqtijlogi sxoidjqiu onleqidxirdqlgkijhrinlk,
rnhcdekirehgilcd,ilogidjqoiqtqadhouijhbrqeci.xe odqqtqgijhriexcdk
rjx egqtricxtilisqgqrdlem

“Uxxgiliblrd-jqlgilrilok,irhtmiNheeikx ibx od?”

“DjldiHinhee,ilogidjloyikqi.qtkib aj,ibkichoqicqeexn;ixoekiHinhrjikx 
chcdkicqqdidleeqtm”

Njqtq sxoiselodhouijhricqqdichtbekilulhordidnxixssxrhdqiseloyrixcidjq
vxld,idjqiuhulodhaioqutx,irdxxshouiliehddeq,istqrqodqgijhriceldislebidx
Celry’ricxxd,ilogidjqois ddhouiCelry’rijlogixoijhrijqltrq-se bqgijqlg
logivhgghouijhbirsthouilrijqijhbrqecirjx egidxrr,inhdjixoqigqpdqtx r
cehouielogqgidjqiehddeqibloijhujilogigtkixoijhrirjx egqtrmiLogijqtqinlr
Celryioxnirdloghou,iGluuxxinhdjixoqiehcdqgiltbic tohrjhouijhbinhdjil
vtqlrdvlogidxieqloilulhordilogirdqlgkijhbrqecivkm

Ldilokidhbqihdihrilirdtlouqirhujdidxidjqidktxidxirqqinhdjinjldinxogtx r
jlvhd gqixci oaxorahx riryheeidjqinjleqbloinheeiblhodlhoiloiqtqad
sxrd tqihoijhrivxld,iq.qoinjqoishdajqgilvx divkidjqibxrdithxdx rek
sqt.qtrqilogiatxrr-t oohouirqlrmiRdheeibxtqirdtlouqidxirqqijhbiuhgghek
sqtajqgi sxoidjqiexuuqtjqlgihdrqec,i ogqtir ajiahta brdloaqrmiV didjq
rhujdixciehddeqiCelryibx odqgi sxoiuhulodhaiGluuxxinlrikqdibxtq
a thx r;icxtir rdlhohouijhbrqecinhdjiliaxxe,ihoghccqtqod,iqlrk,
 odjx ujdixc,ivltvlthaiblfqrdk,idjqioxveqioqutxidxiq.qtkitxeeixcidjq
rqlijltbxohx rekitxeeqgijhrichoqicxtbmiXoijhrivtxlgivlay,icelpqo-jlhtqg
Celryirqqbqgiliroxn-celyqmiDjqivqltqtiexxyqgioxveqtidjloidjqithgqtm
Djx ujidt eki.h.lahx r,id b ed x r,ixrdqodldhx riehddeqiCelryinx egioxn
logidjqoirdlbsinhdjihbsldhqoaq;iv dioxdixoqilggqgijql.qighgijqidjqtqvk
uh.qidxidjqioqutx’riextgekiajqrdmiRxijl.qiHirqqoiSlrrhxoilogi.lohdk
rdlbshouidjqieh.houibluolohbx riqltdj,iv didjqiqltdjighgioxdiledqtijqt
dhgqrilogijqtirqlrxoricxtidjldm

BqlonjheqiRd vv,idjqidjhtgibldq,ivqdtlkqgioxir ajiclt-ulwhou
rxehahd gqrmiDjqinjleqribhujdijl.qiblgqixoqixcidjqhtitqu eltirx oghour,
oxdilidqbsxtltkigh.qictxbibqtqicthujd;ilogihcidjldinqtqidjqialrq,
Rd vv,ilrijhrinxodihoir ajialrqr,ihdirqqbr,inlritqrxe.qgidxirxelaqidjq
elou hrjhouihodqt.leinhdjijhrishsqmiJqinhdjgtqnihdictxbijhrijldvlog,
njqtqijqilenlkrinxtqihdilrelodiehyqilicqldjqtmiJqiexlgqgihd,ilogitlbbqg
jxbqidjqiexlghouinhdjijhridj bv-qog;iv dijltgekijlgijqihuohdqgijhr
bldajilatxrridjqitx ujirlogslsqtixcijhrijlog,injqoiDlrjdqux,ijhr
jltsxxoqqt,injxrqiqkqrijlgivqqoirqddhouidxinhognltgiehyqidnxichpqg
rdltr,ir ggqoekigtxssqgiehyqiehujdictxbijhriqtqadilddhd gqidxijhrirqld,
atkhouix dihoiliz hayisjtqorkixcij ttk,i“Gxno,igxnoilee,ilogiuh.q
nlk!—djqtqidjqkiltq!”

Dxilielogrblo,ioxinjleq,ioxtilokirhuoixcilijqtthou,inx egijl.qivqqo
.hrhveqildidjldibxbqod;ioxdjhouiv dilidtx veqgivhdixciutqqohrjinjhdq
nldqt,ilogidjhoiralddqtqgis ccrixci.lsxtijx.qthouix.qtihd,ilog
r cc rhouekivexnhouixccidxieqqnltg,iehyqidjqiaxoc rqgira gictxbinjhdq
txeehouivheexnrmiDjqilhtiltx ogir ggqoeki.hvtldqgilogidhoueqg,ilrihd
nqtq,iehyqidjqilhtix.qtihodqorqekijqldqgiseldqrixcihtxomiVqoqldjidjhr
ldbxrsjqthainl.houilogia tehou,ilogisltdhleekivqoqldjilidjhoielkqtixc
nldqt,ilerx,idjqinjleqrinqtqirnhbbhoumiRqqoihoilg.loaqixcileeidjqixdjqt
hoghaldhxor,idjqis ccrixci.lsxtidjqkirsx dqg,irqqbqgidjqhticxtqt oohou
ax thqtrilogigqdlajqgicekhouix dthgqtrm

Leeicx tivxldrinqtqioxnihoiyqqois tr hdixcidjldixoqirsxdixcidtx veqg
nldqtilogilhtmiV dihdivlgqiclhtidxix drdthsidjqb;ihdiceqnixoilogixo,ilr
liblrrixcihodqtveqoghouiv vveqrivxtoqigxnoilitlshgirdtqlbictxbidjq
jheerm

“S ee,is ee,ibkiuxxgivxkr,”irlhgiRdltv ay,ihoidjqiexnqrdisxrrhveqiv d
hodqorqrdiaxoaqodtldqginjhrsqtidxijhribqo;injheqidjqirjltsichpqgiueloaq
ctxbijhriqkqrigltdqgirdtlhujdiljqlgixcidjqivxn,ilebxrdirqqbqgilridnx
.hrhveqioqqgeqrihoidnxi oqtthouivhoolaeqiaxbslrrqrmiJqighgioxdirlkib aj
dxijhriatqn,idjx uj,ioxtighgijhriatqnirlkilokdjhouidxijhbmiXoekidjq
rheqoaqixcidjqivxldinlrildihodqt.lerirdltdehouekishqtaqgivkixoqixcijhr
sqa ehltinjhrsqtr,ioxnijltrjinhdjiaxbblog,ioxnirxcdinhdjiqodtqldkm

Jxnighccqtqodidjqiex giehddeqiYhou-Sxrdmi“Rhouix dilogirlkirxbqdjhou,
bkijqltdhqrmiTxltilogis ee,ibkidj ogqtvxedr!iVqlajibq,ivqlajibqixo
djqhtivelayivlayr,ivxkr;ixoekigxidjldicxtibq,ilogiH’eeirhuoix.qtidxikx 
bkiBltdjl’ri.hoqkltgiselodldhxo,ivxkr;ihoae ghouinhcqilogiajhegtqo,
vxkrmiElkibqixo—elkibqixo!iXiExtg,iExtg!iv diHirjleeiuxirdlty,irdlthou
blg!iRqq!irqqidjldinjhdqinldqt!”iLogirxirjx dhou,ijqis eeqgijhrijld
ctxbijhrijqlg,ilogirdlbsqgi silogigxnoixoihd;idjqoishayhouihdi s,
cehtdqgihdicltixcci sxoidjqirql;ilogicholeekicqeeidxitqlthouilog
se ouhouihoidjqivxld’rirdqtoiehyqiliatlwqgiaxedictxbidjqistlhthqm

“Exxyildidjldiajlsioxn,”isjhexrxsjhaleekigtlneqgiRd vv,injx,inhdjijhr
 oehujdqgirjxtdishsq,ibqajlohaleekitqdlhoqgivqdnqqoijhridqqdj,ildil
rjxtdighrdloaq,icxeexnqgilcdqt—“Jq’riuxdichdr,idjldiCelryijlrmiChdr?
kqr,iuh.qijhbichdr—djld’ridjqi.qtkinxtg—shdajichdrihodxi’qbmiBqtthek,
bqtthek,ijqltdr-leh.qmiS gghouicxtir ssqt,ikx iyoxn;—bqttk’ridjqinxtgm
S ee,ivlvqr—s ee,ir ayehour—s ee,ileemiV dinjldidjqigq.heiltqikx 
j ttkhouilvx d?iRxcdek,irxcdek,ilogirdqlghek,ibkibqomiXoekis ee,ilog
yqqsis eehou;ioxdjhouibxtqmiAtlayileeikx tivlayvxoqr,ilogivhdqikx t
yoh.qrihoidnx—djld’rileemiDlyqihdiqlrk—njkigxo’dikqidlyqihdiqlrk,iH
rlk,ilogiv trdileeikx tieh.qtrilogie our!”

V dinjldihdinlridjldihorat dlveqiLjlvirlhgidxidjldidhuqt-kqeexniatqnixc
jhr—djqrqinqtqinxtgrivqrdixbhddqgijqtq;icxtikx ieh.qi ogqtidjqiveqrrqg
ehujdixcidjqiq.louqehaleielogmiXoekidjqihochgqeirjltyrihoidjqil glahx r
rqlriblkiuh.qiqltidxir ajinxtgr,injqo,inhdjidxtolgxivtxn,ilogiqkqrixc
tqgib tgqt,ilogicxlb-ue qgiehsr,iLjlvieqlsqgilcdqtijhristqkm

Bqlonjheq,ileeidjqivxldridxtqixomiDjqitqsqldqgirsqahchailee rhxorixc
Celryidxi“djldinjleq,”ilrijqialeeqgidjqichadhdhx ribxordqtinjhajijq
gqaeltqgidxivqihoaqrrlodekidlodlehwhouijhrivxld’rivxninhdjihdr
dlhe—djqrqilee rhxorixcijhrinqtqildidhbqrirxi.h.hgilogiehcq-ehyq,idjld
djqkinx egial rqirxbqixoqixtidnxixcijhribqoidxiroldajilicqltc eiexxy
x.qtidjqirjx egqtmiV didjhrinlrilulhordileeit eq;icxtidjqixltrbqoib rd
s dix didjqhtiqkqr,ilogitlbiliryqnqtidjtx ujidjqhtioqayr;i rluq
stxox oahouidjldidjqkib rdijl.qioxixtuloriv diqltr,ilogioxiehbvriv d
ltbr,ihoidjqrqiathdhaleibxbqodrm

Hdinlrilirhujdic eeixciz hayinxogqtilogilnq!iDjqi.lrdirnqeerixcidjq
xbohsxdqodirql;idjqir tuhou,ijxeexnitxltidjqkiblgq,ilridjqkitxeeqg
lexouidjqiqhujdiu onleqr,iehyqiuhulodhaivxnerihoilivx ogeqrr
vxnehou-utqqo;idjqivthqcir rsqogqgiluxokixcidjqivxld,ilrihdinx egidhs
cxtiloihordlodixoidjqiyohcq-ehyqiqguqixcidjqirjltsqtinl.qr,idjldilebxrd
rqqbqgidjtqldqohouidxia dihdihoidnx;idjqir ggqoistxcx ogighsihodxidjq
nldqtkiueqorilogijxeexnr;idjqiyqqoirs tthourilogiuxlghouridxiulhoidjq
dxsixcidjqixssxrhdqijhee;idjqijqlgexou,ireqg-ehyqirehgqigxnoihdrixdjqt
rhgq;—leeidjqrq,inhdjidjqiathqrixcidjqijqlgrbqoilogijltsxxoqqtr,ilog
djqirj ggqthouiulrsrixcidjqixltrbqo,inhdjidjqinxogtx rirhujdixcidjq
h.xtkiSqz xgivqlthouigxnoi sxoijqtivxldrinhdjix drdtqdajqgirlher,iehyq
linhegijqoilcdqtijqtiratqlbhouivtxxg;—leeidjhrinlridjtheehoum

Oxdidjqitlnitqat hd,ibltajhouictxbidjqivxrxbixcijhrinhcqihodxidjqicq.qt
jqldixcijhrichtrdivlddeq;ioxdidjqigqlgiblo’riujxrdiqoax odqthouidjq
chtrdi oyoxnoisjlodxbihoidjqixdjqtinxteg;—oqhdjqtixcidjqrqialoicqqe
rdtlouqtilogirdtxouqtiqbxdhxoridjloidjldibloigxqr,injxicxtidjqichtrd
dhbqichogrijhbrqecis eehouihodxidjqiajltbqg,iaj toqgiahtaeqixcidjq
j odqgirsqtbinjleqm

Djqigloahouinjhdqinldqtiblgqivkidjqiajlrqinlrioxnivqaxbhouibxtqilog
bxtqi.hrhveq,ixnhouidxidjqihoatqlrhouigltyoqrrixcidjqig oiaex g-rjlgxnr
ce oui sxoidjqirqlmiDjqifqdrixci.lsxtioxiexouqtiveqogqg,iv didhedqg
q.qtknjqtqidxithujdilogieqcd;idjqinjleqrirqqbqgirqsltldhouidjqhtinlyqrm
Djqivxldrinqtqis eeqgibxtqilsltd;iRdltv ayiuh.houiajlrqidxidjtqqinjleqr
t oohouigqlgidxieqqnltgmiX tirlheinlrioxnirqd,ilog,inhdjidjqirdhee
thrhouinhog,inqit rjqgilexou;idjqivxldiuxhouinhdjir ajiblgoqrridjtx uj
djqinldqt,idjldidjqieqqixltriax egiraltaqekivqinxtyqgitlshgekiqox ujidx
qralsqivqhouidxtoictxbidjqitxn-exayrm

Rxxoinqinqtqit oohouidjtx ujilir cc rhouinhgqi.qheixcibhrd;ioqhdjqt
rjhsioxtivxldidxivqirqqom

“Uh.qinlk,ibqo,”injhrsqtqgiRdltv ay,igtlnhouirdheeic tdjqtilcdidjq
rjqqdixcijhrirlhe;i“djqtqihridhbqidxiyheeilichrjikqdivqcxtqidjqirz lee
axbqrmiDjqtq’rinjhdqinldqtilulho!—aexrqidx!iRsthou!”

Rxxoilcdqt,idnxiathqrihoiz hayir aaqrrhxoixoiqlajirhgqixci rigqoxdqg
djldidjqixdjqtivxldrijlgiuxdiclrd;iv dijltgekinqtqidjqkix.qtjqltg,injqo
nhdjiliehujdohou-ehyqij tdehouinjhrsqtiRdltv ayirlhg:i“Rdlogi s!”ilog
Z qqz qu,ijltsxxoihoijlog,irstlouidxijhricqqdm

Djx ujioxdixoqixcidjqixltrbqoinlridjqoiclahouidjqiehcqilogigqldjisqthe
rxiaexrqidxidjqbiljqlg,ikqdinhdjidjqhtiqkqrixoidjqihodqorqiax odqoloaq
xcidjqibldqihoidjqirdqtoixcidjqivxld,idjqkiyoqnidjldidjqihbbhoqod
hordlodijlgiaxbq;idjqkijqltg,idxx,iloiqoxtbx rinleexnhouirx ogilrixc
chcdkiqeqsjlodrirdhtthouihoidjqhtiehddqtmiBqlonjheqidjqivxldinlrirdhee
vxxbhouidjtx ujidjqibhrd,idjqinl.qria tehouilogijhrrhouiltx ogi riehyq
djqiqtqadqgiatqrdrixciqotluqgirqtsqodrm

“Djld’rijhrij bsmi_Djqtq_,i_djqtq_,iuh.qihdidxijhb!”injhrsqtqg
Rdltv aym

Lirjxtdit rjhouirx ogieqlsqgix dixcidjqivxld;ihdinlridjqigltdqgihtxoixc
Z qqz qumiDjqoileeihoixoqinqegqgiaxbbxdhxoialbqiloiho.hrhveqis rjictxb
lrdqto,injheqicxtnltgidjqivxldirqqbqgirdthyhouixoilieqguq;idjqirlhe
axeelsrqgilogiqpsexgqg;iliu rjixciraleghoui.lsxtirjxdi sioqltivk;
rxbqdjhouitxeeqgilogid bveqgiehyqiloiqltdjz lyqivqoqldji rmiDjqinjxeq
atqninqtqijlecir ccxaldqgilridjqkinqtqidxrrqgijqedqt-ryqedqtihodxidjq
njhdqia tgehouiatqlbixcidjqirz leemiRz lee,injleq,ilogijltsxxoijlgilee
veqogqgidxuqdjqt;ilogidjqinjleq,ibqtqekiutlwqgivkidjqihtxo,iqralsqgm

Djx ujiaxbseqdqekirnlbsqg,idjqivxldinlrioqlteki ojltbqgmiRnhbbhouitx og
hdinqishayqgi sidjqicexldhouixltr,ilogielrjhouidjqbilatxrridjqiu onleq,
d bveqgivlayidxix tiselaqrmiDjqtqinqirldi sidxix tiyoqqrihoidjqirql,
djqinldqtiax.qthouiq.qtkithvilogiseloy,irxidjldidxix tigxnonltgiulwhou
qkqridjqir rsqogqgiatlcdirqqbqgiliaxtleivxldiutxnoi sidxi rictxbidjq
vxddxbixcidjqixaqlom

Djqinhogihoatqlrqgidxilijxne;idjqinl.qriglrjqgidjqhtiv ayeqtridxuqdjqt;
djqinjxeqirz leeitxltqg,icxtyqg,ilogiatlayeqgiltx ogi riehyqilinjhdq
chtqi sxoidjqistlhthq,ihoinjhaj,i oaxor bqg,inqinqtqiv tohou;ihbbxtdle
hoidjqrqiflnrixcigqldj!iHoi.lhoinqijlheqgidjqixdjqtivxldr;ilrinqeeitxlt
dxidjqieh.qiaxlerigxnoidjqiajhboqkixcilicelbhouic tolaqilrijlheidjxrq
vxldrihoidjldirdxtbmiBqlonjheqidjqigth.houira g,itlay,ilogibhrd,iutqn
gltyqtinhdjidjqirjlgxnrixciohujd;ioxirhuoixcidjqirjhsiax egivqirqqom
Djqithrhouirqlicxtvlgqileeilddqbsdridxivleqix didjqivxldmiDjqixltrinqtq
 rqeqrrilristxsqeeqtr,isqtcxtbhouioxnidjqixcchaqixciehcq-stqrqt.qtrm
Rx,ia ddhouidjqielrjhouixcidjqinldqtstxxcibldajiyqu,ilcdqtiblok
clhe tqriRdltv ayiaxodth.qgidxihuohdqidjqielbsihoidjqielodqto;idjqo
rdtqdajhouihdixoilinlhcisxeq,ijlogqgihdidxiZ qqz quilridjq
rdlogltg-vqltqtixcidjhricxtextoijxsqmiDjqtq,idjqo,ijqirld,ijxeghoui s
djldihbvqaheqialogeqihoidjqijqltdixcidjldilebhujdkicxtextooqrrmiDjqtq,
djqo,ijqirld,idjqirhuoilogirkbvxeixcilibloinhdjx diclhdj,ijxsqeqrrek
jxeghoui sijxsqihoidjqibhgrdixcigqrslhtm

Nqd,igtqoajqgidjtx uj,ilogirjh.qthouiaxeg,igqrslhthouixcirjhsixtivxld,
nqiehcdqgi six tiqkqrilridjqiglnoialbqixomiDjqibhrdirdheeirstqlgix.qt
djqirql,idjqiqbsdkielodqtoielkiat rjqgihoidjqivxddxbixcidjqivxldm
R ggqoekiZ qqz quirdltdqgidxijhricqqd,ijxeexnhouijhrijlogidxijhriqltm
Nqileeijqltgiliclhodiatqlyhou,ilrixcitxsqrilogikltgrijhdjqtdxib cceqg
vkidjqirdxtbmiDjqirx ogialbqioqltqtilogioqltqt;idjqidjhayibhrdrinqtq
ghbekisltdqgivkilij uq,i.lu qicxtbmiLccthujdqg,inqileeirstlouihodxidjq
rqlilridjqirjhsildielrdiexxbqgihodxi.hqn,ivqlthouithujdigxnoi sxoi r
nhdjhoilighrdloaqixcioxdib ajibxtqidjloihdrieqoudjm

Cexldhouixoidjqinl.qrinqirlnidjqilvlogxoqgivxld,ilricxtixoqihordlodihd
dxrrqgilogiulsqgivqoqldjidjqirjhs’rivxnriehyqiliajhsildidjqivlrqixcil
aldltlad;ilogidjqoidjqi.lrdij eeitxeeqgix.qtihd,ilogihdinlrirqqoiox
bxtqidheeihdialbqi sinqedqthouilrdqtomiLulhoinqirnlbicxtihd,inqtq
glrjqgilulhordihdivkidjqirqlr,iloginqtqildielrdidlyqoi silogirlcqek
elogqgixoivxltgmiQtqidjqirz leeialbqiaexrqidx,idjqixdjqtivxldrijlgia d
exxrqictxbidjqhtichrjilogitqd toqgidxidjqirjhsihoiuxxgidhbqmiDjqirjhs
jlgiuh.qoi ri s,iv dinlrirdheeiat hrhou,ihcijlsekihdibhujdiehujdi sxo
rxbqidxyqoixcix tisqthrjhou,—loixltixtilieloaqisxeqm


AJLSDQTi49miDjqiJkqolm

Djqtqiltqiaqtdlhoiz qqtidhbqrilogixaalrhxorihoidjhrirdtlouqibhpqg
lcclhtinqialeeiehcqinjqoilibloidlyqridjhrinjxeqi oh.qtrqicxtili.lrd
stladhaleifxyq,idjx ujidjqinhdidjqtqxcijqiv dighbekighraqtor,ilogibxtq
djloir rsqadridjldidjqifxyqihrildioxvxgk’riqpsqorqiv dijhrixnom
Jxnq.qt,ioxdjhouighrshthdr,ilogioxdjhouirqqbrinxtdjinjheqighrs dhoumiJq
vxedrigxnoileeiq.qodr,ileeiatqqgr,ilogivqehqcr,ilogisqtr lrhxor,ilee
jltgidjhouri.hrhveqilogiho.hrhveq,ioq.qtibhogijxniyoxvvk;ilriloixrdthaj
xcisxdqodighuqrdhxoiuxvveqrigxnoiv eeqdrilogiu oicehodrmiLogilricxt
rbleeighccha edhqriloginxttkhour,istxrsqadrixcir ggqoighrlrdqt,isqthe
xciehcqilogiehbv;ileeidjqrq,ilogigqldjihdrqec,irqqbidxijhbixoekirek,
uxxg-old tqgijhdr,ilogifxeekis oajqrihoidjqirhgqivqrdxnqgivkidjqi orqqo
logi olaax odlveqixegifxyqtmiDjldixggirxtdixcinlknltgibxxgiHilb
rsqlyhouixc,iaxbqrix.qtilibloixoekihoirxbqidhbqixciqpdtqbqidthv eldhxo;
hdiaxbqrihoidjqi.qtkibhgrdixcijhriqltoqrdoqrr,irxidjldinjldif rdivqcxtq
bhujdijl.qirqqbqgidxijhbilidjhouibxrdibxbqodx r,ioxnirqqbriv dilisltd
xcidjqiuqoqtleifxyqmiDjqtqihrioxdjhouiehyqidjqisqtherixcinjlehouidx
vtqqgidjhrictqqilogiqlrkirxtdixciuqohle,igqrsqtlgxisjhexrxsjk;iloginhdj
hdiHioxnitqultgqgidjhrinjxeqi.xkluqixcidjqiSqz xg,ilogidjqiutqldiNjhdq
Njleqihdrixvfqadm

“Z qqz qu,”irlhgiH,injqoidjqkijlgigtluuqgibq,idjqielrdiblo,idxidjq
gqay,ilogiHinlrirdheeirjlyhouibkrqecihoibkiflayqdidxicehouixccidjq
nldqt;i“Z qqz qu,ibkichoqicthqog,igxqridjhrirxtdixcidjhouixcdqo
jlssqo?”iNhdjx dib ajiqbxdhxo,idjx ujirxlyqgidjtx ujif rdiehyqibq,ijq
ul.qibqidxi ogqtrdlogidjldir ajidjhourighgixcdqoijlssqom

“BtmiRd vv,”irlhgiH,id tohouidxidjldinxtdjk,injx,iv ddxoqgi sihoijhr
xhe-flayqd,inlrioxnialebekirbxyhouijhrishsqihoidjqitlho;i“BtmiRd vv,iH
djhoyiHijl.qijqltgikx irlkidjldixcileeinjleqbqoikx iq.qtibqd,ix tiajhqc
bldq,iBtmiRdltv ay,ihrivkicltidjqibxrdialtqc eilogist gqodmiHir ssxrq
djqo,idjldiuxhouise bsixoilicekhouinjleqinhdjikx tirlheirqdihoilicxuuk
rz leeihridjqijqhujdixcilinjleqblo’righratqdhxo?”

“AqtdlhomiH’.qiexnqtqgicxtinjleqrictxbilieqlyhouirjhsihoiliuleqixcc
AlsqiJxtom”

“BtmiCelry,”irlhgiH,id tohouidxiehddeqiYhou-Sxrd,injxinlrirdloghou
aexrqivk;i“kx iltqiqpsqthqoaqgihoidjqrqidjhour,ilogiHilbioxdmiNheeikx 
dqeeibqinjqdjqtihdihriloi oledqtlveqielnihoidjhrichrjqtk,iBtmiCelry,
cxtiloixltrbloidxivtqlyijhrixnoivlayis eehouijhbrqecivlay-cxtqbxrdihodx
gqldj’riflnr?”

“Alo’dikx idnhrdidjldirbleeqt?”irlhgiCelrymi“Kqr,idjld’ridjqielnmiH
rjx egiehyqidxirqqilivxld’riatqnivlayhouinldqti sidxilinjleqiclaq
cxtqbxrdmiJl,ijl!idjqinjleqinx egiuh.qidjqbirz hodicxtirz hod,ibhog
djld!”

Jqtqidjqo,ictxbidjtqqihbsltdhleinhdoqrrqr,iHijlgiligqehvqtldqirdldqbqod
xcidjqiqodhtqialrqmiAxorhgqthou,idjqtqcxtq,idjldirz leerilogialsrhwhour
hoidjqinldqtilogiaxorqz qodivh.x layrixoidjqigqqs,inqtqiblddqtrixc
axbbxoixaa ttqoaqihoidjhriyhogixciehcq;iaxorhgqthouidjldildidjq
r sqteldh.qekiathdhaleihordlodixciuxhouixoidxidjqinjleqiHib rditqrhuo
bkiehcqihodxidjqijlogrixcijhbinjxirdqqtqgidjqivxld—xcdqodhbqrilicqeexn
njxildidjldi.qtkibxbqodihrihoijhrihbsqd x roqrri sxoidjqisxhodixc
ra ddehouidjqiatlcdinhdjijhrixnoictlodhairdlbshour;iaxorhgqthouidjld
djqisltdha eltighrlrdqtidxix tixnoisltdha eltivxldinlriajhqcekidxivq
hbs dqgidxiRdltv ay’rigth.houixoidxijhrinjleqilebxrdihoidjqidqqdjixcil
rz lee,ilogiaxorhgqthouidjldiRdltv ay,ioxdnhdjrdloghou,inlriclbx ricxt
jhriutqldijqqgc eoqrrihoidjqichrjqtk;iaxorhgqthouidjldiHivqexouqgidx
djhri oaxbbxoekist gqodiRdltv ay’rivxld;ilogicholeekiaxorhgqthouiho
njldiligq.he’riajlrqiHinlrihbsehaldqg,idx ajhouidjqiNjhdqiNjleq:idlyhou
leeidjhouridxuqdjqt,iHirlk,iHidjx ujdiHibhujdilrinqeeiuxivqexnilogiblyq
litx ujigtlcdixcibkinheemi“Z qqz qu,”irlhgiH,i“axbqilexou,ikx irjleeivq
bkielnkqt,iqpqa dxt,ilogiequldqqm”

Hdiblkirqqbirdtlouqidjldixcileeibqoirlhextrirjx egivqidhoyqthouild
djqhtielrdinheerilogidqrdlbqodr,iv didjqtqiltqioxisqxseqihoidjqinxteg
bxtqicxogixcidjldigh.qtrhxomiDjhrinlridjqicx tdjidhbqihoibkiol dhale
ehcqidjldiHijlgigxoqidjqirlbqidjhoumiLcdqtidjqiaqtqbxokinlriaxoae gqg
 sxoidjqistqrqodixaalrhxo,iHicqedileeidjqiqlrhqt;ilirdxoqinlritxeeqg
lnlkictxbibkijqltdmiVqrhgqr,ileeidjqiglkriHirjx egioxnieh.qinx egivqilr
uxxgilridjqiglkridjldiElwlt rieh.qgilcdqtijhritqr ttqadhxo;il
r sseqbqodltkiaeqloiulhoixcirxiblokibxodjrixtinqqyrilridjqialrqibhujd
vqmiHir t.h.qgibkrqec;ibkigqldjilogiv thleinqtqiexayqgi sihoibkiajqrdm
Hiexxyqgitx ogibqidtloz heekilogiaxodqodqgek,iehyqiliz hqdiujxrdinhdjil
aeqloiaxorahqoaqirhddhouihorhgqidjqivltrixciliro uiclbheki.l edm

Oxnidjqo,idjx ujdiH,i oaxorahx rekitxeehoui sidjqireqq.qrixcibkictxay,
jqtqiuxqricxtiliaxxe,iaxeeqadqgigh.qildigqldjilogigqrdt adhxo,ilogidjq
gq.heicqdajidjqijhogbxrdm


AJLSDQTi50miLjlv’riVxldilogiAtqnmiCqgleeljm

“Njxinx egijl.qidjx ujdihd,iCelry!”iathqgiRd vv;i“hciHijlgiv dixoqiequ
kx inx egioxdialdajibqihoilivxld,i oeqrriblkvqidxirdxsidjqise u-jxeq
nhdjibkidhbvqtidxqmiXj!ijq’rilinxogqtc eixegiblo!”

“Higxo’didjhoyihdirxirdtlouq,ilcdqtilee,ixoidjldilaax od,”irlhgiCelrym
“Hcijhriequinqtqixccildidjqijhs,ioxn,ihdinx egivqilighccqtqodidjhoum
Djldinx egighrlveqijhb;iv dijqijlrixoqiyoqq,ilogiuxxgisltdixcidjqixdjqt
eqcd,ikx iyoxnm”

“Higxo’diyoxnidjld,ibkiehddeqiblo;iHioq.qtikqdirlnijhbiyoqqem”

Lbxouinjleq-nhrqisqxseqihdijlrixcdqoivqqoiltu qginjqdjqt,iaxorhgqthou
djqisltlbx odihbsxtdloaqixcijhriehcqidxidjqir aaqrrixcidjqi.xkluq,ihd
hrithujdicxtilinjlehouialsdlhoidxifqxsltghwqidjldiehcqihoidjqiladh.q
sqtherixcidjqiajlrqmiRxiDlbqteloq’rirxeghqtrixcdqoiltu qginhdjidqltriho
djqhtiqkqr,injqdjqtidjldiho.le lveqiehcqixcijhrix ujdidxivqialtthqg
hodxidjqidjhayqrdixcidjqichujdm

V dinhdjiLjlvidjqiz qrdhxoilrr bqgilibxghchqgilrsqadmiAxorhgqthouidjld
nhdjidnxiequribloihriv dilijxvvehouinhujdihoileeidhbqrixciglouqt;
axorhgqthouidjldidjqis tr hdixcinjleqrihrilenlkri ogqtiutqldilog
qpdtlxtgholtkighccha edhqr;idjldiq.qtkihogh.hg leibxbqod,ihogqqg,idjqo
axbsthrqrilisqthe;i ogqtidjqrqiahta brdloaqrihrihdinhrqicxtilokiblhbqg
bloidxiqodqtilinjleq-vxldihoidjqij od?iLriliuqoqtleidjhou,idjq
fxhod-xnoqtrixcidjqiSqz xgib rdijl.qiselhoekidjx ujdioxdm

Ljlvinqeeiyoqnidjldiledjx ujijhricthqogrildijxbqinx egidjhoyiehddeqixc
jhriqodqthouilivxldihoiaqtdlhoiaxbsltldh.qekijltbeqrri.hahrrhd gqrixc
djqiajlrq,icxtidjqirlyqixcivqhouioqltidjqiraqoqixciladhxoilogiuh.hou
jhrixtgqtrihoisqtrxo,ikqdicxtiAlsdlhoiLjlvidxijl.qilivxldilad leek
lssxtdhxoqgidxijhbilrilitqu eltijqlgrbloihoidjqij od—lvx.qileeicxt
AlsdlhoiLjlvidxivqir ssehqginhdjich.qiqpdtlibqo,ilridjldirlbqivxld’r
atqn,ijqinqeeiyoqnidjldir ajiuqoqtx riaxoaqhdrioq.qtiqodqtqgidjqijqlgr
xcidjqixnoqtrixcidjqiSqz xgmiDjqtqcxtqijqijlgioxdirxehahdqgilivxld’r
atqnictxbidjqb,ioxtijlgijqihoilokinlkijhodqgijhrigqrhtqrixoidjldijqlgm
Oq.qtdjqeqrrijqijlgidlyqoisth.ldqibqlr tqrixcijhrixnoidx ajhouileeidjld
blddqtmi odheiAlvlax’ris vehrjqgighrax.qtk,idjqirlhextrijlgiehddeq
cxtqrqqoihd,idjx ujidxivqir tqinjqo,ilcdqtivqhouiliehddeqinjheqix dixc
sxtd,ileeijlogrijlgiaxoae gqgidjqia rdxbltkiv rhoqrrixcichddhouidjq
njleqvxldricxtirqt.haq;injqoirxbqidhbqilcdqtidjhriLjlvinlrioxnilogidjqo
cx ogivqrdhtthouijhbrqecihoidjqiblddqtixciblyhouidjxeq-shorinhdjijhr
xnoijlogricxtinjldinlridjx ujdidxivqixoqixcidjqirsltqivxldr,ilogiq.qo
rxehahdx rekia ddhouidjqirbleeinxxgqoiryqnqtr,injhajinjqoidjqiehoqihr
t oohouix diltqishooqgix.qtidjqiutxx.qihoidjqivxn:injqoileeidjhrinlr
xvrqt.qgihoijhb,ilogisltdha eltekijhrirxehahd gqihoijl.houiloiqpdtl
axldixcirjqldjhouihoidjqivxddxbixcidjqivxld,ilrihcidxiblyqihdivqddqt
nhdjrdlogidjqisxhodqgistqrr tqixcijhrih.xtkiehbv;ilogilerxidjqilophqdk
jqiq.hoaqgihoiqpladekirjlshouidjqidjhujivxltg,ixtiae brkiaeqld,ilrihd
hrirxbqdhbqrialeeqg,idjqijxthwxodleishqaqihoidjqivxld’rivxnicxtivtlahou
djqiyoqqilulhordihoigltdhouixtirdlvvhouildidjqinjleq;injqoihdinlr
xvrqt.qgijxnixcdqoijqirdxxgi sihoidjldivxldinhdjijhrirxehdltkiyoqq
chpqgihoidjqirqbh-ahta eltigqstqrrhxoihoidjqiaeqld,iloginhdjidjq
altsqodqt’riajhrqeiux uqgix diliehddeqijqtqilogirdtlhujdqoqgihdil
ehddeqidjqtq;ileeidjqrqidjhour,iHirlk,ijlgilnlyqoqgib ajihodqtqrdilog
a thxrhdkildidjqidhbqmiV dilebxrdiq.qtkvxgkir ssxrqgidjldidjhr
sltdha eltistqsltldh.qijqqgc eoqrrihoiLjlvib rdixoekivqinhdjili.hqnidx
djqi edhbldqiajlrqixciBxvkiGhay;icxtijqijlgiletqlgkitq.qleqgijhr
hodqodhxoidxij odidjldibxtdleibxordqtihoisqtrxomiV dir ajilir ssxrhdhxo
ghgivkioxibqloriho.xe.qidjqitqbxdqrdir rshahxoilridxilokivxld’riatqn
vqhouilrrhuoqgidxidjldivxldm

Oxn,inhdjidjqir vxtgholdqisjlodxbr,injldinxogqtitqblhoqgirxxoinloqg
lnlk;icxtihoilinjleqtinxogqtrirxxoinloqmiVqrhgqr,ioxnilogidjqoir aj
 olaax odlveqixggrilogiqogrixcirdtlouqioldhxoriaxbqi sictxbidjqi oyoxno
oxxyrilogilrj-jxeqrixcidjqiqltdjidxibloidjqrqicexldhouix delnrixc
njleqtr;ilogidjqirjhsridjqbrqe.qrixcdqoishayi sir ajiz qqtialrdlnlk
atqld tqricx ogidxrrhouilvx didjqixsqoirqlixoiseloyr,ivhdrixcintqay,
xltr,injleqvxldr,ialoxqr,ivexno-xcciFlsloqrqif oyr,iloginjldioxd;idjld
Vqqewqv vijhbrqecibhujdiaehbvi sidjqirhgqilogirdqsigxnoihodxidjqialvho
dxiajldinhdjidjqialsdlho,ilogihdinx egioxdiatqldqiloki or vg lveq
qpahdqbqodihoidjqicxtqalrdeqm

V divqileeidjhrilrihdiblk,iaqtdlhoihdihridjldinjheqidjqir vxtgholdq
sjlodxbrirxxoicx ogidjqhtiselaqilbxouidjqiatqn,idjx ujirdheeilrihdinqtq
rxbqjxnighrdhoadictxbidjqb,ikqdidjldijlht-d tvloqgiCqgleeljitqblhoqgil
b cceqgibkrdqtkidxidjqielrdmiNjqoaqijqialbqihoiliblooqtekinxtegiehyq
djhr,ivkinjldirxtdixci olaax odlveqidhqijqirxxoiq.hoaqgijhbrqecidxivq
ehoyqginhdjiLjlv’risqa ehlticxtd oqr;iolk,irxicltilridxijl.qirxbqirxtd
xcilijlec-jhodqgihoce qoaq;iJql.qoiyoxnr,iv dihdibhujdijl.qivqqoiq.qo
l djxthdkix.qtijhb;ileeidjhrioxoqiyoqnmiV dixoqialooxdir rdlhoilo
hoghccqtqodilhtiaxoaqtohouiCqgleeljmiJqinlrir ajiliatqld tqilr
ah.hehwqg,igxbqrdhaisqxseqihoidjqidqbsqtldqiwxoqixoekirqqihoidjqht
gtqlbr,ilogidjldiv dighbek;iv didjqiehyqixcinjxbioxnilogidjqoiuehgq
lbxouidjqi oajlouhouiLrhldhaiaxbb ohdhqr,iqrsqahleekidjqiXthqodleihreqr
dxidjqiqlrdixcidjqiaxodhoqod—djxrqihor eldqg,ihbbqbxthle,i oledqtlveq
ax odthqr,injhajiq.qoihoidjqrqibxgqtoiglkrirdheeistqrqt.qib ajixcidjq
ujxrdekilvxthuholeoqrrixciqltdj’risthbleiuqoqtldhxor,injqoidjqibqbxtk
xcidjqichtrdibloinlrilighrdhoaditqaxeeqadhxo,ilogileeibqoijhr
gqraqoglodr,i oyoxnhouinjqoaqijqialbq,iqkqgiqlajixdjqtilritqle
sjlodxbr,ilogilryqgixcidjqir oilogidjqibxxoinjkidjqkinqtqiatqldqgilog
dxinjldiqog;injqoidjx uj,ilaaxtghouidxiUqoqrhr,idjqilouqerihogqqg
axorxtdqginhdjidjqigl ujdqtrixcibqo,idjqigq.herilerx,ilggidjq
 oaloxohaleiTlvvhor,ihog euqgihoib ogloqilbx trm


AJLSDQTi51miDjqiRshthd-Rsx dm

Glkr,inqqyrislrrqg,ilogi ogqtiqlrkirlhe,idjqih.xtkiSqz xgijlgirexnek
rnqsdilatxrricx tirq.qtleiat hrhou-utx ogr;idjldixccidjqiLwxtqr;ixcc
djqiAlsqigqi.qtgqr;ixoidjqiSeldqi(rxialeeqg),ivqhouixccidjqibx djixc
djqiThxigqieliSeldl;ilogidjqiAlttxeiUtx og,iloi ordlyqg,inldqtk
exalehdk,irx djqtekictxbiRdmiJqeqolm

Hdinlrinjheqiuehghouidjtx ujidjqrqielddqtinldqtridjldixoqirqtqoqilog
bxxoehujdiohujd,injqoileeidjqinl.qritxeeqgivkiehyqiratxeerixcirhe.qt;
log,ivkidjqhtirxcd,ir cc rhouirqqdjhour,iblgqinjldirqqbqgilirhe.qtk
rheqoaq,ioxdilirxehd gq;ixoir ajilirheqodiohujdilirhe.qtkifqdinlrirqqo
cltihoilg.loaqixcidjqinjhdqiv vveqrildidjqivxnmiEhdi sivkidjqibxxo,ihd
exxyqgiaqeqrdhle;irqqbqgirxbqise bqgilogiuehddqthouiuxgi sthrhouictxb
djqirqlmiCqgleeljichtrdigqrathqgidjhrifqdmiCxtixcidjqrqibxxoehujd
ohujdr,ihdinlrijhrinxodidxibx odidxidjqiblho-blrdijqlg,ilogirdlogil
exxy-x didjqtq,inhdjidjqirlbqistqahrhxoilrihcihdijlgivqqoiglkmiLogikqd,
djx ujijqtgrixcinjleqrinqtqirqqoivkiohujd,ioxdixoqinjleqbloihoil
j ogtqginx egi.qod tqiliexnqthouicxtidjqbmiKx iblkidjhoyinhdjinjld
qbxdhxor,idjqo,idjqirqlbqoivqjqegidjhrixegiXthqodleisqtajqgilexcdild
r aji o r leijx tr;ijhrid tvloilogidjqibxxo,iaxbslohxorihoixoqirykmiV d
njqo,ilcdqtirsqoghouijhri ohcxtbihodqt.leidjqtqicxtirq.qtleir aaqrrh.q
ohujdrinhdjx di ddqthouilirhoueqirx og;injqo,ilcdqtileeidjhrirheqoaq,
jhri oqltdjeki.xhaqinlrijqltgiloox oahouidjldirhe.qtk,ibxxo-ehdifqd,
q.qtkitqaehohouiblthoqtirdltdqgidxijhricqqdilrihcirxbqinhouqgirshthd
jlgiehujdqgihoidjqithuuhou,ilogijlheqgidjqibxtdleiatqnmi“Djqtqirjq
vexnr!”iJlgidjqidt bsixcif gubqodivexno,idjqkiax egioxdijl.qiz h.qtqg
bxtq;ikqdirdheeidjqkicqedioxidqttxt;itldjqtiseqlr tqmiCxtidjx ujihdinlr
libxrdi onxodqgijx t,ikqdirxihbstqrrh.qinlridjqiatk,ilogirxigqehthx rek
qpahdhou,idjldilebxrdiq.qtkirx eixoivxltgihordhoadh.qekigqrhtqgil
exnqthoum

Nleyhouidjqigqayinhdjiz hay,irhgq-e ouhouirdthgqr,iLjlviaxbblogqgidjq
d’uleelodirlherilogitxkleridxivqirqd,ilogiq.qtkird orlheirstqlgmiDjq
vqrdibloihoidjqirjhsib rdidlyqidjqijqebmiDjqo,inhdjiq.qtkiblrd-jqlg
blooqg,idjqisheqg- siatlcditxeeqgigxnoivqcxtqidjqinhogmiDjqirdtlouq,
 sjql.hou,iehcdhouidqogqoakixcidjqidlcctlheivtqqwqicheehouidjqijxeexnr
xcirxiblokirlher,iblgqidjqiv xklod,ijx.qthouigqayidxicqqeiehyqilht
vqoqldjidjqicqqd;injheqirdheeirjqit rjqgilexou,ilrihcidnxilodluxohrdha
hoce qoaqrinqtqirdt uuehouihoijqt—xoqidxibx odightqadidxijql.qo,idjq
xdjqtidxigth.qiklnhouekidxirxbqijxthwxodleiuxlemiLogijlgikx inldajqg
Ljlv’riclaqidjldiohujd,ikx inx egijl.qidjx ujdidjldihoijhbilerxidnx
ghccqtqodidjhourinqtqinltthoumiNjheqijhrixoqieh.qiequiblgqieh.qek
qajxqrilexouidjqigqay,iq.qtkirdtxyqixcijhrigqlgiehbvirx ogqgiehyqil
axccho-dlsmiXoiehcqilogigqldjidjhrixegibloinleyqgmiV didjx ujidjqirjhs
rxirnhcdekirsqg,ilogidjx ujictxbiq.qtkiqkq,iehyqilttxnr,idjqiqluqt
ueloaqrirjxd,ikqdidjqirhe.qtkifqdinlrioxibxtqirqqoidjldiohujdmiQ.qtk
rlhextirnxtqijqirlnihdixoaq,iv dioxdilirqaxogidhbqm

Djhribhgohujd-rsx dijlgilebxrdiutxnoilicxtuxddqoidjhou,injqo,irxbqiglkr
lcdqt,iex!ildidjqirlbqirheqodijx t,ihdinlrilulhoiloox oaqg:ilulhoihd
nlrigqrathqgivkilee;iv di sxoiblyhouirlheidxix.qtdlyqihd,ixoaqibxtqihd
ghrlssqltqgilrihcihdijlgioq.qtivqqomiLogirxihdirqt.qgi riohujdilcdqt
ohujd,idheeioxixoqijqqgqgihdiv didxinxogqtildihdmiBkrdqthx rekifqddqg
hodxidjqiaeqltibxxoehujd,ixtirdltehujd,ilridjqialrqibhujdivq;
ghrlssqlthouilulhoicxtixoqinjxeqiglk,ixtidnxiglkr,ixtidjtqq;ilog
rxbqjxnirqqbhouildiq.qtkighrdhoaditqsqdhdhxoidxivqilg.loahouirdhee
c tdjqtilogic tdjqtihoix ti.lo,idjhrirxehdltkifqdirqqbqgicxtiq.qt
lee thoui rixom

Oxtinhdjidjqihbbqbxthleir sqtrdhdhxoixcidjqhtitlaq,ilogihoilaaxtgloaq
nhdjidjqistqdqtold tleoqrr,ilrihdirqqbqg,injhajihoiblokidjhouriho.qrdqg
djqiSqz xg,inqtqidjqtqinlodhouirxbqixcidjqirqlbqoinjxirnxtqidjld
njqoq.qtiloginjqtq.qtigqrathqg;ildijxnq.qtitqbxdqidhbqr,ixtihoijxnq.qt
cltilsltdieldhd gqrilogiexouhd gqr,idjldi ooqltlveqirsx dinlrialrdivk
xoqirqec-rlbqinjleq;ilogidjldinjleq,iBxvkiGhaymiCxtilidhbq,idjqtq
tqhuoqg,idxx,ilirqorqixcisqa ehltigtqlgildidjhricehddhouilsslthdhxo,ilr
hcihdinqtqidtqlajqtx rekivqayxohoui rixoilogixo,ihoixtgqtidjldidjq
bxordqtibhujdid toitx ogi sxoi r,ilogitqogi rildielrdihoidjqitqbxdqrd
logibxrdirl.luqirqlrm

Djqrqidqbsxtltkilsstqjqorhxor,irxi.lu qiv dirxilnc e,igqth.qgil
nxogtx risxdqoakictxbidjqiaxodtlrdhouirqtqohdkixcidjqinqldjqt,iho
njhaj,ivqoqldjileeihdrive qivelogoqrr,irxbqidjx ujdidjqtqie tyqgil
gq.hehrjiajltb,ilricxtiglkrilogiglkrinqi.xkluqgilexou,idjtx ujirqlrirx
nqlthek,iexoqrxbqekibheg,idjldileeirslaq,ihoitqs uoloaqidxix ti.qouqc e
qttlog,irqqbqgi.laldhouihdrqecixciehcqivqcxtqix ti to-ehyqistxnm

V d,ildielrd,injqoid tohouidxidjqiqlrdnltg,idjqiAlsqinhogrivqulo
jxnehouiltx ogi r,iloginqitxrqilogicqeei sxoidjqiexou,idtx veqgirqlr
djldiltqidjqtq;injqoidjqih.xtk-d ryqgiSqz xgirjltsekivxnqgidxidjq
velrd,ilogiuxtqgidjqigltyinl.qrihoijqtiblgoqrr,idhee,iehyqirjxnqtrixc
rhe.qtiajhsr,idjqicxlb-celyqriceqnix.qtijqtiv enltyr;idjqoileeidjhr
gqrxeldqi.la hdkixciehcqinqodilnlk,iv diul.qiselaqidxirhujdribxtq
ghrbleidjloivqcxtqm

Aexrqidxix tivxnr,irdtlouqicxtbrihoidjqinldqtigltdqgijhdjqtilogidjhdjqt
vqcxtqi r;injheqidjhayihoix titqlticeqnidjqihorat dlveqirql-tl.qormiLog
q.qtkibxtohou,isqtajqgixoix tirdlkr,itxnrixcidjqrqivhtgrinqtqirqqo;ilog
rshdqixcix tijxxdhour,icxtiliexouidhbqixvrdholdqekiae ouidxidjqijqbs,
lridjx ujidjqkigqqbqgix tirjhsirxbqigthcdhou,i ohojlvhdqgiatlcd;il
djhouilssxhodqgidxigqrxeldhxo,ilogidjqtqcxtqichditxxrdhou-selaqicxt
djqhtijxbqeqrrirqe.qrmiLogijql.qgilogijql.qg,irdheei otqrdhouekijql.qg
djqivelayirql,ilrihcihdri.lrdidhgqrinqtqiliaxorahqoaq;ilogidjqiutqld
b ogloqirx einqtqihoilou hrjilogitqbxtrqicxtidjqiexouirhoilogir ccqthou
hdijlgivtqgm

AlsqixciUxxgiJxsq,igxidjqkialeeikq?iTldjqtiAlsqiDxtbqodxrx,ilrialeeqg
xcikxtq;icxtiexouilee tqgivkidjqisqtchghx rirheqoaqridjldivqcxtqijlg
lddqogqgi r,inqicx ogix trqe.qriel oajqgihodxidjhridxtbqodqgirql,injqtq
u hedkivqhouridtlorcxtbqgihodxidjxrqicxnerilogidjqrqichrj,irqqbqg
axogqboqgidxirnhbixoiq.qtelrdhouekinhdjx dilokijl.qoihoirdxtq,ixtivqld
djldivelayilhtinhdjx dilokijxthwxomiV dialeb,iroxn-njhdq,ilog
 o.ltkhou;irdheeightqadhouihdricx odlhoixcicqldjqtridxidjqiryk;irdhee
vqayxohoui rixoictxbivqcxtq,idjqirxehdltkifqdinx egildidhbqrivq
gqrathqgm

G thouileeidjhrivelayoqrrixcidjqiqeqbqodr,iLjlv,idjx ujilrr bhouicxt
djqidhbqidjqilebxrdiaxodho leiaxbblogixcidjqigtqoajqgilogiglouqtx r
gqay,iblohcqrdqgidjqiuexxbhqrditqrqt.q;ilogibxtqirqegxbidjloiq.qt
lggtqrrqgijhribldqrmiHoidqbsqrd x ridhbqriehyqidjqrq,ilcdqtiq.qtkdjhou
lvx.qilogilexcdijlrivqqoirqa tqg,ioxdjhouibxtqialoivqigxoqiv d
slrrh.qekidxilnlhdidjqihrr qixcidjqiuleqmiDjqoiAlsdlhoilogiatqnivqaxbq
stladhaleicldlehrdrmiRx,inhdjijhrih.xtkiequihorqtdqgihodxihdr
laa rdxbqgijxeq,iloginhdjixoqijlogichtbekiutlrshouilirjtx g,iLjlvicxt
jx trilogijx trinx egirdlogiulwhouigqlgidxinhognltg,injheqilo
xaalrhxoleirz leeixcireqqdixtiroxninx egileeiv diaxouqleijhri.qtk
qkqelrjqridxuqdjqtmiBqlodhbq,idjqiatqnigth.qoictxbidjqicxtnltgisltdixc
djqirjhsivkidjqisqthex rirqlridjldiv trdhouekivtxyqix.qtihdrivxnr,
rdxxgihoiliehoqilexouidjqiv enltyrihoidjqinlhrd;ilogidjqivqddqtidx
u ltgilulhordidjqieqlshouinl.qr,iqlajibloijlgirehssqgijhbrqecihodxil
rxtdixcivxnehoqirqa tqgidxidjqitlhe,ihoinjhajijqirn ouilrihoiliexxrqoqg
vqedmiCqnixtioxinxtgrinqtqirsxyqo;ilogidjqirheqodirjhs,ilrihciblooqgivk
slhodqgirlhextrihoinlp,iglkilcdqtiglkidxtqixoidjtx ujileeidjqirnhcd
blgoqrrilogiuelgoqrrixcidjqigqbxohlainl.qrmiVkiohujdidjqirlbqib dqoqrr
xcij blohdkivqcxtqidjqirjthqyrixcidjqixaqloistq.lheqg;irdheeihoirheqoaq
djqibqoirn ouihoidjqivxnehoqr;irdheeinxtgeqrriLjlvirdxxgi sidxidjq
velrdmiQ.qoinjqoinqlthqgiold tqirqqbqgigqbloghouitqsxrqijqinx egioxd
rqqyidjlditqsxrqihoijhrijlbbxaymiOq.qtiax egiRdltv ayicxtuqdidjqixeg
blo’rilrsqad,injqoixoqiohujdiuxhouigxnoihodxidjqialvhoidxibltyijxnidjq
vltxbqdqtirdxxg,ijqirlnijhbinhdjiaexrqgiqkqrirhddhouirdtlhujdihoijhr
cexxt-ratqnqgiajlht;idjqitlhoilogijlec-bqedqgireqqdixcidjqirdxtbictxb
njhajijqijlgirxbqidhbqivqcxtqiqbqtuqg,irdheeirexnekigthsshouictxbidjq
 otqbx.qgijldilogiaxldmiXoidjqidlveqivqrhgqijhbielki otxeeqgixoqixc
djxrqiajltdrixcidhgqrilogia ttqodrinjhajijl.qistq.hx rekivqqoirsxyqo
xcmiJhrielodqtoirn ouictxbijhridhujdekiaeqoajqgijlogmiDjx ujidjqivxgk
nlriqtqad,idjqijqlginlridjtxnoivlayirxidjldidjqiaexrqgiqkqrinqtq
sxhodqgidxnltgridjqioqqgeqixcidjqidqee-dleqidjldirn ouictxbilivqlbiho
djqiaqhehoum*

*Djqialvho-axbslrrihrialeeqgidjqidqee-dleq,ivqal rqinhdjx diuxhouidx
djqiaxbslrrildidjqijqeb,idjqiAlsdlho,injheqivqexn,ialoihocxtbijhbrqec
xcidjqiax trqixcidjqirjhsm

Dqtthveqixegiblo!idjx ujdiRdltv ayinhdjilirj ggqt,ireqqshouihoidjhr
uleq,irdheeidjx irdqlgclrdekiqkqrdidjkis tsxrqm


AJLSDQTi52miDjqiLevldtxrrm

Rx dj-qlrdnltgictxbidjqiAlsq,ixccidjqighrdlodiAtxwqddr,iliuxxgiat hrhou
utx ogicxtiThujdiNjleqbqo,ilirlheiexxbqgiljqlg,idjqiUxoqki(Levldtxrr)
vkiolbqmiLrirjqirexnekigtqniohuj,ictxbibkiexcdkisqtajildidjq
cxtq-blrd-jqlg,iHijlgiliuxxgi.hqnixcidjldirhujdirxitqbltylveqidxilidktx
hoidjqicltixaqloichrjqthqr—linjleqtildirql,ilogiexouilvrqodictxbijxbqm

Lrihcidjqinl.qrijlgivqqoic eeqtr,idjhriatlcdinlriveqlajqgiehyqidjq
ryqeqdxoixcilirdtlogqginlet rmiLeeigxnoijqtirhgqr,idjhrirsqadtle
lssqltloaqinlridtlaqginhdjiexouiajlooqerixcitqggqoqgit rd,injheqilee
jqtirsltrilogijqtithuuhouinqtqiehyqidjqidjhayivtloajqrixcidtqqric ttqg
x.qtinhdjijxlt-ctxrdmiXoekijqtiexnqtirlherinqtqirqdmiLinhegirhujdihd
nlridxirqqijqtiexou-vqltgqgiexxy-x drildidjxrqidjtqqiblrd-jqlgrmiDjqk
rqqbqgiaelgihoidjqiryhorixcivqlrdr,irxidxtoilogivqsldajqgidjqitlhbqod
djldijlgir t.h.qgioqltekicx tikqltrixciat hrhoumiRdloghouihoihtxoijxxsr
olheqgidxidjqiblrd,idjqkirnlkqgilogirn ouix.qtilicldjxbeqrrirql;ilog
djx uj,injqoidjqirjhsirexnekiuehgqgiaexrqi ogqtix tirdqto,inqirhpibqo
hoidjqilhtialbqirxiohujidxiqlajixdjqtidjldinqibhujdilebxrdijl.qieqlsqg
ctxbidjqiblrd-jqlgrixcixoqirjhsidxidjxrqixcidjqixdjqt;ikqd,idjxrq
cxtexto-exxyhouichrjqtbqo,ibhegekiqkqhoui rilridjqkislrrqg,irlhgioxd
xoqinxtgidxix tixnoiexxy-x dr,injheqidjqiz ltdqt-gqayijlheinlrivqhou
jqltgictxbivqexnm

“Rjhsiljxk!iJl.qikqirqqoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”

V dilridjqirdtlouqialsdlho,ieqlohouix.qtidjqisleehgiv enltyr,inlriho
djqiladixcis ddhouijhridt bsqdidxijhribx dj,ihdirxbqjxnicqeeictxbijhr
jlogihodxidjqirql;ilogidjqinhogioxnithrhouilblho,ijqihoi.lhoirdtx.qidx
blyqijhbrqecijqltginhdjx dihdmiBqlodhbqijhrirjhsinlrirdheeihoatqlrhou
djqighrdloaqivqdnqqomiNjheqihoi.lthx rirheqodinlkridjqirqlbqoixcidjq
Sqz xginqtqiq.hoahouidjqhtixvrqt.loaqixcidjhrixbhox rihoahgqodildidjq
chtrdibqtqibqodhxoixcidjqiNjhdqiNjleq’riolbqidxiloxdjqtirjhs,iLjlvicxt
libxbqodisl rqg;ihdilebxrdirqqbqgilridjx ujijqinx egijl.qiexnqtqgil
vxldidxivxltgidjqirdtlouqt,ijlgioxdidjqidjtqldqohouinhogicxtvlgqmiV d
dlyhouilg.lodluqixcijhrinhognltgisxrhdhxo,ijqilulhoirqhwqgijhridt bsqd,
logiyoxnhouivkijqtilrsqadidjldidjqirdtlouqti.qrrqeinlriliOlod ayqdqt
logirjxtdekivx ogijxbq,ijqiex gekijlheqg—“Ljxkidjqtq!iDjhrihridjq
Sqz xg,ivx ogitx ogidjqinxteg!iDqeeidjqbidxilggtqrrileeic d tqieqddqtr
dxidjqiSlahchaixaqlo!ilogidjhridhbqidjtqqikqltr,ihciHilbioxdildijxbq,
dqeeidjqbidxilggtqrridjqbidxi——”

Ldidjldibxbqodidjqidnxinlyqrinqtqiclhtekiatxrrqg,ilogihordlodek,idjqo,
hoilaaxtgloaqinhdjidjqhtirhou eltinlkr,irjxlerixcirbleeijltbeqrrichrj,
djldicxtirxbqiglkrivqcxtqijlgivqqoiselahgekirnhbbhouivkix tirhgq,
gltdqgilnlkinhdjinjldirqqbqgirj ggqthouichor,ilogitlouqgidjqbrqe.qr
cxtqilogilcdinhdjidjqirdtlouqt’riceloyrmiDjx ujihoidjqiax trqixcijhr
axodho lei.xkluhouriLjlvib rdixcdqoivqcxtqijl.qioxdhaqgilirhbhelt
rhujd,ikqd,idxilokibxoxblohlaiblo,idjqi.qthqrdidthceqrialsthahx rek
alttkibqlohourm

“Rnhbilnlkictxbibq,igxikq?”ib tb tqgiLjlv,iulwhouix.qtihodxidjqinldqtm
Djqtqirqqbqgiv diehddeqihoidjqinxtgr,iv didjqidxoqiaxo.qkqgibxtqixc
gqqsijqeseqrrirlgoqrridjloidjqihorloqixegibloijlgiq.qtivqcxtqiq.hoaqgm
V did tohouidxidjqirdqqtrblo,injxidj ricltijlgivqqoijxeghouidjqirjhsiho
djqinhogidxighbhohrjijqtijqlgnlk,ijqiathqgix dihoijhrixegiehxo
.xhaq,—“ sijqeb!iYqqsijqtixccitx ogidjqinxteg!”

Tx ogidjqinxteg!iDjqtqihrib ajihoidjldirx ogidxihorshtqistx gicqqehour;
v dinjqtqdxigxqrileeidjldiahta bol.huldhxoiaxog ad?iXoekidjtx uj
o bvqteqrrisqtheridxidjqi.qtkisxhodinjqoaqinqirdltdqg,injqtqidjxrqidjld
nqieqcdivqjhogirqa tq,inqtqileeidjqidhbqivqcxtqi rm

Nqtqidjhrinxtegiloiqogeqrriselho,ilogivkirlhehouiqlrdnltginqiax egicxt
q.qtitqlajioqnighrdloaqr,ilogighrax.qtirhujdribxtqirnqqdilogirdtlouq
djloilokiAkaelgqrixtiHrelogrixciYhouiRxexbxo,idjqoidjqtqinqtqistxbhrq
hoidjqi.xkluqmiV dihois tr hdixcidjxrqicltibkrdqthqrinqigtqlbixc,ixtiho
dxtbqodqgiajlrqixcidjldigqbxoisjlodxbidjld,irxbqidhbqixtixdjqt,irnhbr
vqcxtqileeij bloijqltdr;injheqiajlrhouir ajix.qtidjhritx ogiuexvq,idjqk
qhdjqtieqlgi rixoihoivlttqoiblwqrixtibhgnlkieql.qi rinjqebqgm


AJLSDQTi53miDjqiUlbm

DjqixrdqorhveqitqlrxoinjkiLjlvighgioxdiuxixoivxltgixcidjqinjleqtinqijlg
rsxyqoinlridjhr:idjqinhogilogirqlivqdxyqoqgirdxtbrmiV diq.qoijlgidjhr
oxdivqqoidjqialrq,ijqinx egioxdilcdqtilee,isqtjlsr,ijl.qivxltgqg
jqt—f guhouivkijhrir vrqz qodiaxog adixoirhbheltixaalrhxor—hcirxihdijlg
vqqoidjld,ivkidjqistxaqrrixcijlhehou,ijqijlgixvdlhoqgilioquldh.qilornqt
dxidjqiz qrdhxoijqis dmiCxt,ilrihdiq.qod leekid toqgix d,ijqialtqgioxd
dxiaxorxtd,iq.qoicxtich.qibho dqr,inhdjilokirdtlouqtialsdlho,iqpaqsdijq
ax egiaxodthv dqirxbqixcidjldihocxtbldhxoijqirxilvrxtvhouekirx ujdmiV d
leeidjhribhujditqblhoiholgqz ldqekiqrdhbldqg,inqtqioxdirxbqdjhouirlhg
jqtqixcidjqisqa ehlti rluqrixcinjlehou-.qrrqerinjqoibqqdhouiqlajixdjqt
hoicxtqhuoirqlr,ilogiqrsqahleekixoiliaxbbxoiat hrhou-utx ogm

HcidnxirdtlouqtriatxrrhouidjqiShoqiVlttqorihoiOqniKxtyiRdldq,ixtidjq
qz leekigqrxeldqiRlehrv tkiSelhoihoiQouelog;ihcialr leekiqoax odqthou
qlajixdjqtihoir ajihojxrshdlveqinhegr,idjqrqidnlho,icxtidjqiehcqixc
djqb,ialooxdinqeeil.xhgilib d leirle dldhxo;ilogirdxsshouicxtilibxbqod
dxihodqtajlouqidjqioqnr;ilog,isqtjlsr,irhddhouigxnoicxtilinjheqilog
tqrdhouihoiaxoaqtd:idjqo,ijxnib ajibxtqiold tleidjldi sxoidjq
heehbhdlveqiShoqiVlttqorilogiRlehrv tkiSelhorixcidjqirql,idnxinjlehou
.qrrqerigqratkhouiqlajixdjqtildidjqiqogrixcidjqiqltdj—xcciexoq
Cloohou’riHrelog,ixtidjqicltilnlkiYhou’riBheer;ijxnib ajibxtqiold tle,
Hirlk,idjldi ogqtir ajiahta brdloaqridjqrqirjhsrirjx egioxdixoek
hodqtajlouqijlher,iv diaxbqihodxirdheeiaexrqt,ibxtqicthqogekilog
rxahlveqiaxodladmiLogiqrsqahleekinx egidjhrirqqbidxivqiliblddqtixc
ax trq,ihoidjqialrqixci.qrrqerixnoqgihoixoqirqlsxtd,iloginjxrq
alsdlhor,ixcchaqtr,ilogioxdilicqnixcidjqibqoiltqisqtrxoleekiyoxnoidx
qlajixdjqt;ilogiaxorqz qodek,ijl.qileeirxtdrixcigqltigxbqrdhaidjhouridx
dleyilvx dm

Cxtidjqiexouilvrqodirjhs,idjqix dnltg-vx ogqt,isqtjlsr,ijlrieqddqtrixo
vxltg;ildilokitldq,irjqinheeivqir tqidxieqdijqtijl.qirxbqislsqtrixcil
gldqilikqltixtidnxieldqtidjloidjqielrdixoqixoijqtive ttqgilog
dj bv-nxtoicheqrmiLogihoitqd toicxtidjldiax tdqrk,idjqix dnltg-vx og
rjhsinx egitqaqh.qidjqieldqrdinjlehouihodqeehuqoaqictxbidjq
at hrhou-utx ogidxinjhajirjqiblkivqigqrdhoqg,ilidjhouixcidjqi dbxrd
hbsxtdloaqidxijqtmiLogihoigqutqq,ileeidjhrinheeijxegidt qiaxoaqtohou
njlehoui.qrrqeriatxrrhouiqlajixdjqt’ridtlayixoidjqiat hrhou-utx og
hdrqec,iq.qoidjx ujidjqkiltqiqz leekiexouilvrqodictxbijxbqmiCxtixoqixc
djqbiblkijl.qitqaqh.qgilidtlorcqtixcieqddqtrictxbirxbqidjhtg,ilogioxn
cltitqbxdqi.qrrqe;ilogirxbqixcidjxrqieqddqtriblkivqicxtidjqisqxseqixc
djqirjhsirjqioxnibqqdrmiVqrhgqr,idjqkinx egiqpajlouqidjqinjlehouioqnr,
logijl.qiloilutqqlveqiajldmiCxtioxdixoekinx egidjqkibqqdinhdjileeidjq
rkbsldjhqrixcirlhextr,iv diehyqnhrqinhdjileeidjqisqa ehlt
axouqohlehdhqrilthrhouictxbiliaxbbxois tr hdilogib d leekirjltqg
sth.ldhxorilogisqtherm

Oxtinx egighccqtqoaqixciax odtkiblyqiloki.qtkiqrrqodhleighccqtqoaq;
djldihr,irxiexouilrivxdjisltdhqrirsqlyixoqielou luq,ilrihridjqialrq
nhdjiLbqthalorilogiQouehrjmiDjx uj,idxivqir tq,ictxbidjqirbleeio bvqt
xciQouehrjinjleqtr,ir ajibqqdhourigxioxdi.qtkixcdqoixaa t,iloginjqo
djqkigxixaa tidjqtqihridxxilsdidxivqilirxtdixcirjkoqrrivqdnqqoidjqb;
cxtikx tiQouehrjbloihritldjqtitqrqt.qg,ilogikx tiKloyqq,ijqigxqrioxd
cloakidjldirxtdixcidjhouihoilokvxgkiv dijhbrqecmiVqrhgqr,idjqiQouehrj
njleqtrirxbqdhbqrilccqadiliyhogixcibqdtxsxehdloir sqthxthdkix.qtidjq
Lbqthaloinjleqtr;itqultghouidjqiexou,ieqloiOlod ayqdqt,inhdjijhr
oxogqrathsdistx.hoahlehrbr,ilrilirxtdixcirql-sqlrlodmiV dinjqtqidjhr
r sqthxthdkihoidjqiQouehrjinjleqbqoigxqritqleekiaxorhrd,ihdinx egivq
jltgidxirlk,irqqhouidjldidjqiKloyqqrihoixoqiglk,iaxeeqadh.qek,iyhee
bxtqinjleqridjloileeidjqiQouehrj,iaxeeqadh.qek,ihoidqoikqltrmiV didjhr
hrilijltbeqrriehddeqicxhveqihoidjqiQouehrjinjleq-j odqtr,injhajidjq
Olod ayqdqtigxqrioxdidlyqib ajidxijqltd;istxvlvek,ivqal rqijqiyoxnr
djldijqijlrilicqnicxhveqrijhbrqecm

Rx,idjqo,inqirqqidjldixcileeirjhsrirqsltldqekirlhehouidjqirql,idjq
njleqtrijl.qibxrditqlrxoidxivqirxahlveq—logidjqkiltqirxmiNjqtqlr,irxbq
bqtajlodirjhsriatxrrhouiqlajixdjqt’rinlyqihoidjqibhg-Ldelodha,inhee
xcdqodhbqrislrrixoinhdjx dirxib ajilrilirhoueqinxtgixcitqaxuohdhxo,
b d leekia ddhouiqlajixdjqtixoidjqijhujirqlr,iehyqilivtlaqixcigloghqr
hoiVtxlgnlk;ilogileeidjqidhbqihog euhou,isqtjlsr,ihoichohaleiathdhahrb
 sxoiqlajixdjqt’rithumiLricxtiBqo-xc-Nlt,injqoidjqkiajloaqidxibqqdild
rql,idjqkichtrdiuxidjtx ujir ajilirdthouixcirheekivxnhourilog
ratlshour,ir ajilig ayhouixciqorhuor,idjldidjqtqigxqrioxdirqqbidxivq
b ajithujd-gxnoijqltdkiuxxg-nheeilogivtxdjqtekiex.qilvx dihdildileemiLr
dx ajhouiRel.q-rjhsribqqdhou,injk,idjqkiltqihoir ajilistxghuhx rij ttk,
djqkit oilnlkictxbiqlajixdjqtilrirxxoilrisxrrhveqmiLogilricxtiShtldqr,
njqoidjqkiajloaqidxiatxrriqlajixdjqt’riatxrr-vxoqr,idjqichtrdijlhe
hr—“Jxniblokiry eer?”—djqirlbqinlkidjldinjleqtrijlhe—“Jxniblok
vlttqer?”iLogidjldiz qrdhxoixoaqilornqtqg,ishtldqrirdtlhujdnlkirdqqt
lsltd,icxtidjqkiltqihocqtolei.heelhorixoivxdjirhgqr,ilogigxo’diehyqidx
rqqix.qtb ajixciqlajixdjqt’ri.heelox riehyqoqrrqrm

V diexxyildidjqiuxgek,ijxoqrd,i oxrdqodldhx r,ijxrshdlveq,irxahlveq,
ctqq-log-qlrkinjleqt!iNjldigxqridjqinjleqtigxinjqoirjqibqqdriloxdjqt
njleqtihoilokirxtdixcigqaqodinqldjqt?iRjqijlrili“_Ulb_,”ilidjhouirx
 ddqteki oyoxnoidxileeixdjqtirjhsridjldidjqkioq.qtijqltgixcidjqiolbq
q.qo;ilogihcivkiajloaqidjqkirjx egijqltixcihd,idjqkixoekiuthoildihd,
logitqsqldiulbqrxbqird ccilvx di“rsx dqtr”ilogi“ve vvqt-vxheqtr,”ilog
r ajiehyqistqddkiqpaelbldhxormiNjkihdihridjldileeiBqtajlod-rqlbqo,ilog
lerxileeiShtldqrilogiBlo-xc-Nlt’ribqo,ilogiRel.q-rjhsirlhextr,iajqthrj
r ajiliraxtoc eicqqehouidxnltgriNjleq-rjhsr;idjhrihriliz qrdhxoihd
nx egivqijltgidxilornqtmiVqal rq,ihoidjqialrqixcishtldqr,irlk,iHirjx eg
ehyqidxiyoxninjqdjqtidjldistxcqrrhxoixcidjqhtrijlrilokisqa ehltiuextk
lvx dihdmiHdirxbqdhbqriqogrihoi oaxbbxoiqeq.ldhxo,ihogqqg;iv dixoekild
djqiuleexnrmiLogivqrhgqr,injqoilibloihriqeq.ldqgihoidjldixggiclrjhxo,
jqijlrioxistxsqticx ogldhxoicxtijhrir sqthxtiledhd gqmiJqoaq,iH
axoae gq,idjldihoivxlrdhouijhbrqecidxivqijhujiehcdqgilvx.qilinjleqblo,
hoidjldilrrqtdhxoidjqishtldqijlrioxirxehgivlrhridxirdlogixom

V dinjldihrili_Ulb?_iKx ibhujdinqltix dikx tihogqp-chouqtit oohoui s
logigxnoidjqiaxe borixcighadhxolthqr,ilogioq.qtichogidjqinxtgmiGtm
Fxjorxoioq.qtilddlhoqgidxidjldiqt ghdhxo;iOxljiNqvrdqt’riltyigxqrioxd
jxegihdmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,idjhrirlbqiqpstqrrh.qinxtgijlrioxnicxtiblokikqltr
vqqoihoiaxordlodi rqilbxouirxbqichcdqqoidjx rlogidt qivxtoiKloyqqrm
Aqtdlhoek,ihdioqqgriligqchohdhxo,ilogirjx egivqihoaxtsxtldqgihodxidjq
EqphaxomiNhdjidjldi.hqn,ieqdibqieqltoqgekigqchoqihdm

ULBmiOX O—_Lirxahleibqqdhouixcidnx_i(_xtibxtq_)i_Njleqrjhsr,iuqoqtleek
xoiliat hrhou-utx og;injqo,ilcdqtiqpajlouhouijlher,idjqkiqpajlouq
.hrhdrivkivxldr’iatqnr:idjqidnxialsdlhoritqblhohou,icxtidjqidhbq,ixo
vxltgixcixoqirjhs,ilogidjqidnxiajhqcibldqrixoidjqixdjqtm_

Djqtqihriloxdjqtiehddeqihdqbilvx diUlbbhouinjhajib rdioxdivqicxtuxddqo
jqtqmiLeeistxcqrrhxorijl.qidjqhtixnoiehddeqisqa ehlthdhqrixcigqdlhe;irx
jlridjqinjleqichrjqtkmiHoilishtldq,iblo-xc-nlt,ixtirel.qirjhs,injqoidjq
alsdlhoihritxnqgiloknjqtqihoijhrivxld,ijqilenlkrirhdrihoidjqirdqto
rjqqdrixoiliaxbcxtdlveq,irxbqdhbqria rjhxoqgirqldidjqtq,ilogixcdqo
rdqqtrijhbrqecinhdjilistqddkiehddeqibheehoqt’ridheeqtigqaxtldqginhdj
ulkiaxtgrilogithvvxormiV didjqinjleq-vxldijlrioxirqldilrdqto,ioxirxcl
xcidjldirxtdinjldq.qt,ilogioxidheeqtildileemiJhujidhbqrihogqqg,ihc
njlehouialsdlhorinqtqinjqqeqgilvx didjqinldqtixoialrdxtriehyqiux dkixeg
legqtbqoihoisldqodiajlhtrmiLogilricxtilidheeqt,idjqinjleq-vxldioq.qt
lgbhdrixcilokir ajiqccqbholak;ilogidjqtqcxtqilrihoiulbbhouiliaxbseqdq
vxld’riatqnib rdieql.qidjqirjhs,ilogijqoaqilridjqivxldirdqqtqtixt
jltsxxoqqtihrixcidjqio bvqt,idjldir vxtgholdqihridjqirdqqtrbloi sxoidjq
xaalrhxo,ilogidjqialsdlho,ijl.houioxiselaqidxirhdiho,ihris eeqgixccidx
jhri.hrhdileeirdloghouiehyqilishoqidtqqmiLogixcdqoikx inheeioxdhaqidjld
vqhouiaxorahx rixcidjqiqkqrixcidjqinjxeqi.hrhveqinxtegitqrdhouixoijhb
ctxbidjqirhgqrixcidjqidnxirjhsr,idjhrirdloghouialsdlhoihrileeileh.qidx
djqihbsxtdloaqixcir rdlhohouijhrighuohdkivkiblhodlhohouijhriequrmiOxt
hridjhriloki.qtkiqlrkiblddqt;icxtihoijhritqltihridjqihbbqorqistxfqadhou
rdqqthouixltijhddhouijhbioxnilogidjqoihoidjqirbleeixcijhrivlay,idjq
lcdqt-xltitqahstxaldhouivkitlsshouijhriyoqqrihoictxodmiJqihridj r
axbseqdqekinqguqgivqcxtqilogivqjhog,ilogialoixoekiqpslogijhbrqec
rhgqnlkrivkirqddehouigxnoixoijhrirdtqdajqgiequr;iv dilir ggqo,i.hxeqod
shdajixcidjqivxldinheeixcdqoiuxicltidxidxsseqijhb,ivqal rqieqoudjixc
cx ogldhxoihrioxdjhouinhdjx diaxttqrsxoghouivtqlgdjmiBqtqekiblyqil
rstqlgiloueqixcidnxisxeqr,ilogikx ialooxdirdlogidjqbi smiDjqo,ilulho,
hdinx egioq.qtigxihoiselhoirhujdixcidjqinxteg’rith.qdqgiqkqr,ihdinx eg
oq.qtigx,iHirlk,icxtidjhrirdtlggehouialsdlhoidxivqirqqoirdqlgkhou
jhbrqecidjqirehujdqrdisltdhaeqivkialdajhouijxegixcilokdjhouinhdjijhr
jlogr;ihogqqg,ilridxyqoixcijhriqodhtq,iv xklodirqec-axbblog,ijq
uqoqtleekialtthqrijhrijlogrihoijhridtxnrqtr’isxayqdr;iv disqtjlsrivqhou
uqoqtleeki.qtkieltuq,ijql.kijlogr,ijqialtthqridjqbidjqtqicxtivleelrdm
Oq.qtdjqeqrridjqtqijl.qixaa ttqgihordloaqr,inqeeil djqodhaldqgixoqr
dxx,injqtqidjqialsdlhoijlrivqqoiyoxnoicxtiloi oaxbbxoekiathdhaleibxbqod
xtidnx,ihoilir ggqoirz leeirlk—dxirqhwqijxegixcidjqioqltqrdixltrblo’r
jlht,ilogijxegixoidjqtqiehyqiuthbigqldjm


AJLSDQTi54miDjqiDxno-Jx’riRdxtkm

(_LridxegildidjqiUxegqoiHoom_)

DjqiAlsqixciUxxgiJxsq,ilogileeidjqinldqtkitquhxoitx ogilvx didjqtq,ihr
b ajiehyqirxbqioxdqgicx tiaxtoqtrixciliutqldijhujnlk,injqtqikx ibqqd
bxtqidtl.qeeqtridjloihoilokixdjqtisltdm

Hdinlrioxdi.qtkiexouilcdqtirsqlyhouidjqiUxoqkidjldiloxdjqt
jxbqnltg-vx oginjleqblo,idjqiDxno-Jx,*inlriqoax odqtqgmiRjqinlriblooqg
lebxrdinjxeekivkiSxekoqrhlormiHoidjqirjxtdiulbidjldiqor qgirjqiul.qi r
rdtxouioqnrixciBxvkiGhaymiDxirxbqidjqiuqoqtleihodqtqrdihoidjqiNjhdq
Njleqinlrioxninhegekijqhujdqoqgivkiliahta brdloaqixcidjqiDxno-Jx’r
rdxtk,injhajirqqbqgixvra tqekidxiho.xe.qinhdjidjqinjleqiliaqtdlho
nxogtx r,iho.qtdqgi.hrhdldhxoixcixoqixcidjxrqirxialeeqgif gubqodrixc
Uxginjhajildidhbqriltqirlhgidxix.qtdlyqirxbqibqomiDjhrielddqt
ahta brdloaq,inhdjihdrixnoisltdha eltilaaxbslohbqodr,icxtbhouinjldiblk
vqialeeqgidjqirqatqdisltdixcidjqidtluqgkilvx didxivqiolttldqg,ioq.qt
tqlajqgidjqiqltrixciAlsdlhoiLjlvixtijhribldqrmiCxtidjldirqatqdisltdixc
djqirdxtkinlri oyoxnoidxidjqialsdlhoixcidjqiDxno-JxijhbrqecmiHdinlridjq
sth.ldqistxsqtdkixcidjtqqiaxocqgqtldqinjhdqirqlbqoixcidjldirjhs,ixoqixc
njxb,ihdirqqbr,iaxbb ohaldqgihdidxiDlrjdquxinhdjiTxbhrjihof oadhxorixc
rqatqak,iv didjqicxeexnhouiohujdiDlrjdquxitlbveqgihoijhrireqqs,ilog
tq.qleqgirxib ajixcihdihoidjldinlk,idjldinjqoijqinlrinlyqoqgijqiax eg
oxdinqeeinhdjjxegidjqitqrdmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,irxisxdqodiloihoce qoaqighg
djhridjhouijl.qixoidjxrqirqlbqoihoidjqiSqz xginjxialbqidxidjqic ee
yoxneqguqixcihd,ilogivkir ajilirdtlouqigqehalak,idxialeeihdirx,inqtq
djqkiux.qtoqgihoidjhriblddqt,idjldidjqkiyqsdidjqirqatqdilbxou
djqbrqe.qrirxidjldihdioq.qtidtlorshtqgilvlcdidjqiSqz xg’riblho-blrdm
Hodqtnql.houihoihdristxsqtiselaqidjhrigltyqtidjtqlginhdjidjqirdxtkilr
s vehaekiolttldqgixoidjqirjhs,idjqinjxeqixcidjhrirdtlouqilcclhtiHioxn
stxaqqgidxis dixoielrdhouitqaxtgm

*Djqiloahqodinjleq-atki sxoichtrdirhujdhouilinjleqictxbidjqiblrd-jqlg,
rdheei rqgivkinjleqbqoihoij odhouidjqiclbx riUleehsluxridqttlshom

Cxtibkij bxt’rirlyq,iHirjleeistqrqt.qidjqirdkeqihoinjhajiHixoaq
olttldqgihdildiEhbl,idxiliex ouhouiahtaeqixcibkiRslohrjicthqogr,ixoq
rlhod’riq.q,irbxyhoui sxoidjqidjhay-uhedidheqgishlwwlixcidjqiUxegqo
HoomiXcidjxrqichoqial.lehqtr,idjqikx ouiGxor,iSqgtxilogiRqvlrdhlo,inqtq
xoidjqiaexrqtidqtbrinhdjibq;ilogijqoaqidjqihodqte ghouiz qrdhxoridjqk
xaalrhxoleekis d,iloginjhajiltqig ekilornqtqgildidjqidhbqm

“Rxbqidnxikqltristhxtidxibkichtrdieqltohouidjqiq.qodrinjhajiHilbilvx d
tqjqltrhouidxikx ,iuqodeqbqo,idjqiDxno-Jx,iRsqtbiNjleqtixciOlod ayqd,
nlriat hrhouihoikx tiSlahchaijqtq,ioxdi.qtkiblokiglkr’irlheiqlrdnltg
ctxbidjqiql.qrixcidjhriuxxgiUxegqoiHoomiRjqinlrirxbqnjqtqidxidjq
oxtdjnltgixcidjqiEhoqmiXoqibxtohoui sxoijlogehouidjqis bsr,ilaaxtghou
dxiglheki rluq,ihdinlrixvrqt.qgidjldirjqiblgqibxtqinldqtihoijqtijxeg
djloiaxbbxomiDjqkir ssxrqgilirnxtg-chrjijlgirdlvvqgijqt,iuqodeqbqomiV d
djqialsdlho,ijl.houirxbqi o r leitqlrxoicxtivqehq.houidjlditltqiuxxg
e ayilnlhdqgijhbihoidjxrqieldhd gqr;ilogidjqtqcxtqivqhoui.qtkil.qtrqidx
z hdidjqb,ilogidjqieqlyioxdivqhouidjqoiaxorhgqtqgildileeiglouqtx r,
djx uj,ihogqqg,idjqkiax egioxdichogihdilcdqtirqltajhouidjqijxegilriexn
gxnoilrinlrisxrrhveqihoitldjqtijql.kinqldjqt,idjqirjhsirdheeiaxodho qg
jqtiat hrhour,idjqiblthoqtrinxtyhouildidjqis bsrildinhgqilogiqlrk
hodqt.ler;iv dioxiuxxgie ayialbq;ibxtqiglkrinqodivk,ilogioxdixoekinlr
djqieqlyikqdi oghrax.qtqg,iv dihdirqorhvekihoatqlrqgmiRxib ajirx,idjld
oxnidlyhouirxbqileltb,idjqialsdlho,iblyhouileeirlhe,irdxxgilnlkicxtidjq
oqltqrdijltvxtilbxouidjqihrelogr,idjqtqidxijl.qijhrij eeijx.qix dilog
tqslhtqgm

“Djx ujioxirbleeislrrluqinlrivqcxtqijqt,ikqd,ihcidjqiaxbbxoqrdiajloaq
cl.x tqg,ijqighgioxdildileeicqltidjldijhrirjhsinx egicx ogqtivkidjq
nlk,ivqal rqijhris bsrinqtqixcidjqivqrd,ilogivqhouisqthxghaleek
tqehq.qgildidjqb,idjxrqirhp-log-djhtdkibqoixcijhriax egiqlrhekiyqqsidjq
rjhsictqq;ioq.qtibhogihcidjqieqlyirjx egigx veqixoijqtmiHoidt dj,inqee
ohujidjqinjxeqixcidjhrislrrluqivqhouilddqogqgivki.qtkistxrsqtx r
vtqqwqr,idjqiDxno-Jxijlgileeiv diaqtdlhoekiltth.qgihoisqtcqadirlcqdkild
jqtisxtdinhdjx didjqixaa ttqoaqixcidjqieqlrdicldlehdk,ijlgihdioxdivqqo
cxtidjqivt dleix.qtvqlthouixciTlgoqk,idjqibldq,ili.hoqkltgqt,ilogidjq
vhddqtekistx.xyqgi.qouqloaqixciRdqqeyhed,iliElyqbloilogigqrsqtlgxictxb
V cclexm

“‘Elyqblo!—V cclex!iStlk,injldihriliElyqblo,iloginjqtqihriV cclex?’
rlhgiGxoiRqvlrdhlo,ithrhouihoijhrirnhouhouibldixciutlrrm

“Xoidjqiqlrdqtoirjxtqixcix tiElyqiQthq,iGxo;iv d—Hiatl.qikx t
ax tdqrk—blkivq,ikx irjleeirxxoijqltic tdjqtixcileeidjldmiOxn,
uqodeqbqo,ihoirz ltq-rlheivthurilogidjtqq-blrdqgirjhsr,inqee-ohujilr
eltuqilogirdx dilrilokidjldiq.qtirlheqgix dixcikx tixegiAleelxidxiclt
Bloheel;idjhriElyqblo,ihoidjqielog-exayqgijqltdixcix tiLbqthal,ijlgikqd
vqqoio td tqgivkileeidjxrqilutlthloictqqvxxdhouihbstqrrhxorisxs eltek
axooqadqginhdjidjqixsqoixaqlomiCxtihoidjqhtihodqtcexnhouiluutquldq,
djxrqiutlogictqrj-nldqtirqlrixcix tr,—Qthq,ilogiXodlthx,ilogiJ txo,ilog
R sqthxt,ilogiBhajhulo,—sxrrqrriloixaqlo-ehyqiqpslorh.qoqrr,inhdjiblok
xcidjqixaqlo’rioxveqrdidtlhdr;inhdjiblokixcihdrithbbqgi.lthqdhqrixc
tlaqrilogixciaehbqrmiDjqkiaxodlhoitx ogiltajhsqeluxqrixcitxblodha
hreqr,iq.qoilridjqiSxekoqrhloinldqtrigx;ihoieltuqisltd,iltqirjxtqgivk
dnxiutqldiaxodtlrdhouioldhxor,ilridjqiLdelodhaihr;idjqkic tohrjiexou
blthdhbqilsstxlajqridxix tio bqtx ridqtthdxthleiaxexohqrictxbidjqiQlrd,
gxddqgileeitx ogidjqhtivloyr;ijqtqilogidjqtqiltqictxnoqgi sxoivk
vlddqthqr,ilogivkidjqiuxld-ehyqiatluukiu orixciexcdkiBlayholn;idjqk
jl.qijqltgidjqiceqqdidj ogqthourixciol.lei.hadxthqr;ildihodqt.ler,idjqk
khqegidjqhtivqlajqridxinhegivltvlthlor,injxrqitqgislhodqgiclaqricelrj
ctxbix didjqhtisqedtkinhunlbr;icxtieqlu qrilogieqlu qriltqiceloyqgivk
loahqodilogi oqodqtqgicxtqrdr,injqtqidjqiul odishoqrirdlogiehyqirqtthqg
ehoqrixciyhourihoiUxdjhaiuqoqlexuhqr;idjxrqirlbqinxxgrijltvxthouinheg
Lcthaivqlrdrixcistqk,ilogirheyqoiatqld tqrinjxrqiqpsxtdqgic triuh.q
txvqridxiDltdltiQbsqtxtr;idjqkibhttxtidjqisl.qgialshdlerixciV cclexilog
Aeq.qelog,ilrinqeeilriNhooqvluxi.heeluqr;idjqkicexldilehyqidjq
c ee-thuuqgibqtajlodirjhs,idjqiltbqgiat hrqtixcidjqiRdldq,idjqirdqlbqt,
logidjqivqqajialoxq;idjqkiltqirnqsdivkiVxtqloilogighrblrdhouivelrdrilr
ghtqc eilrilokidjldielrjidjqirledqginl.q;idjqkiyoxninjldirjhsntqayr
ltq,icxtix dixcirhujdixcielog,ijxnq.qtihoelog,idjqkijl.qigtxnoqgic ee
blokilibhgohujdirjhsinhdjileeihdrirjthqyhouiatqnmiDj r,iuqodeqbqo,
djx ujiloihoelogqt,iRdqqeyhedinlrinheg-xaqloivxto,iloginheg-xaqlo
o td tqg;ilrib ajixciloil glahx riblthoqtilrilokmiLogicxtiTlgoqk,
djx ujihoijhrihocloakijqiblkijl.qielhgijhbigxnoixoidjqiexoqiOlod ayqd
vqlaj,idxio trqildijhribldqtoleirql;idjx ujihoilcdqtiehcqijqijlgiexou
cxeexnqgix til rdqtqiLdelodhailogikx tiaxodqbseldh.qiSlahcha;ikqdinlr
jqiz hdqilri.qouqc eilogic eeixcirxahleiz lttqeilridjqivlaynxxgr
rqlblo,ictqrjictxbidjqieldhd gqrixciv ay-jxtoijlogeqgiVxnhq-yoh.qrmiKqd
nlridjhriOlod ayqdqtilibloinhdjirxbqiuxxg-jqltdqgidtlhdr;ilogidjhr
Elyqblo,iliblthoqt,injxidjx ujilirxtdixcigq.heihogqqg,ibhujdikqdivk
hoceqphveqichtboqrr,ixoekidqbsqtqgivkidjldiaxbbxoigqaqoakixcij blo
tqaxuohdhxoinjhajihridjqibqloqrdirel.q’rithujd;idj ridtqldqg,idjhr
RdqqeyhedijlgiexouivqqoitqdlhoqgijltbeqrrilogigxaheqmiLdileeiq.qodr,ijq
jlgistx.qgirxidj riclt;iv diTlgoqkinlrigxxbqgilogiblgqiblg,ilog
Rdqqeyhed—v d,iuqodeqbqo,ikx irjleeijqltm

“Hdinlrioxdibxtqidjloiliglkixtidnxildidjqic tdjqrdilcdqtisxhodhouijqt
stxnicxtijqtihrelogijl.qo,idjldidjqiDxno-Jx’rieqlyirqqbqgilulho
hoatqlrhou,iv dixoekirxilridxitqz htqiloijx tixtibxtqildidjqis bsr
q.qtkiglkmiKx ib rdiyoxnidjldihoilirqddeqgilogiah.hehwqgixaqloiehyqix t
Ldelodha,icxtiqplbseq,irxbqiryhssqtridjhoyiehddeqixcis bshouidjqht
njxeqinlkilatxrrihd;idjx ujixcilirdhee,ireqqskiohujd,irjx egidjq
xcchaqtixcidjqigqayijlssqoidxicxtuqdijhrig dkihoidjlditqrsqad,idjq
stxvlvhehdkinx egivqidjldijqilogijhrirjhsbldqrinx egioq.qtilulho
tqbqbvqtihd,ixoilaax odixcileeijlogriuqodekir vrhghouidxidjqivxddxbm
Oxtihoidjqirxehdltkilogirl.luqirqlricltictxbikx idxidjqinqrdnltg,
uqodeqbqo,ihrihdiledxuqdjqti o r leicxtirjhsridxiyqqsiaelouhouildidjqht
s bs-jlogeqrihoic eeiajxt riq.qoicxtili.xkluqixciaxorhgqtlveqieqoudj;
djldihr,ihcihdiehqilexouilidxeqtlvekilaaqrrhveqiaxlrd,ixtihcilokixdjqt
tqlrxolveqitqdtqldihrilccxtgqgidjqbmiHdihrixoekinjqoilieqlyki.qrrqeihr
hoirxbqi.qtkix dixcidjqinlkisltdixcidjxrqinldqtr,irxbqitqleekielogeqrr
eldhd gq,idjldijqtialsdlhoivquhoridxicqqeiliehddeqilophx rm

“B ajidjhrinlkijlgihdivqqoinhdjidjqiDxno-Jx;irxinjqoijqtieqlyinlricx og
ulhohouixoaqibxtq,idjqtqinlrihoidt djirxbqirbleeiaxoaqtoiblohcqrdqgivk
rq.qtleixcijqtiaxbslok;iqrsqahleekivkiTlgoqkidjqibldqmiJqiaxbblogqgidjq
 ssqtirlheridxivqinqeeijxhrdqg,irjqqdqgijxbqiloqn,ilogiq.qtkinlk
qpslogqgidxidjqivtqqwqmiOxnidjhriTlgoqk,iHir ssxrq,inlrilriehddeqixcil
axnltg,ilogilriehddeqihoaehoqgidxilokirxtdixcioqt.x rilsstqjqorh.qoqrr
dx ajhouijhrixnoisqtrxoilrilokicqlteqrr,i odjhoyhouiatqld tqixoielogixt
xoirqlidjldikx ialoiaxo.qohqodekihbluhoq,iuqodeqbqomiDjqtqcxtqinjqoijq
vqdtlkqgidjhrirxehahd gqilvx didjqirlcqdkixcidjqirjhs,irxbqixcidjq
rqlbqoigqaeltqgidjldihdinlrixoekixoilaax odixcijhrivqhouilisltdixnoqt
hoijqtmiRxinjqoidjqkinqtqinxtyhouidjldiq.qohouildidjqis bsr,idjqtqinlr
xoidjhrijqlgioxirbleeiulbqrxbqoqrrirehekiuxhouixoilbxouidjqb,ilridjqk
rdxxginhdjidjqhticqqdiaxodho leekix.qtcexnqgivkidjqithssehouiaeqlt
nldqt;iaeqltilrilokibx odlhoirsthou,iuqodeqbqo—djldiv vvehouictxbidjq
s bsritloilatxrridjqigqay,ilogisx tqgihdrqecix dihoirdqlgkirsx drild
djqieqqira ssqt-jxeqrm

“Oxn,ilrikx inqeeiyoxn,ihdihrioxdirqegxbidjqialrqihoidjhriaxo.qodhxole
nxtegixcix tr—nldqtkixtixdjqtnhrq;idjldinjqoilisqtrxoiselaqgihoiaxbblog
x.qtijhricqeexn-bqoichogrixoqixcidjqbidxivqi.qtkirhuohchalodekijhr
r sqthxtihoiuqoqtleisthgqixciblojxxg,irdtlhujdnlkilulhordidjldibloijq
axoaqh.qriloi oaxoz qtlveqighrehyqilogivhddqtoqrr;ilogihcijqijl.qil
ajloaqijqinheeis eeigxnoilogis e.qthwqidjldir vledqto’ridxnqt,ilogiblyq
liehddeqijqlsixcig rdixcihdmiVqidjhriaxoaqhdixcibhoqilrihdiblk,
uqodeqbqo,ildileeiq.qodriRdqqeyhedinlrilidleeilogioxveqilohbleinhdjil
jqlgiehyqiliTxblo,ilogilicexnhouiuxegqoivqltgiehyqidjqidlrrqeqg
jx rhourixcikx tielrdi.haqtxk’riroxtdhouiajltuqt;ilogilivtlho,ilogil
jqltd,ilogilirx eihoijhb,iuqodeqbqo,injhajijlgiblgqiRdqqeyhed
Ajlteqbluoq,ijlgijqivqqoivxtoirxoidxiAjlteqbluoq’ricldjqtmiV diTlgoqk,
djqibldq,inlri uekilrilib eq;ikqdilrijltgk,ilrird vvxto,ilriblehahx rm
Jqighgioxdiex.qiRdqqeyhed,ilogiRdqqeyhediyoqnihdm

“Qrskhouidjqibldqigtlnhouioqltilrijqinlridxhehouildidjqis bsinhdjidjq
tqrd,idjqiElyqbloilccqadqgioxdidxioxdhaqijhb,iv di olnqg,inqodixoinhdj
jhriulkivlodqthourm

“‘Lkq,ilkq,ibkibqttkielgr,ihd’rilieh.qekieqlyidjhr;ijxegilialoohyho,
xoqixcikq,ilogieqd’rijl.qilidlrdqmiVkidjqiExtg,ihd’rinxtdjivxddehou!iH
dqeeikqinjld,ibqo,ixegiTlg’riho.qrdbqodib rdiuxicxtihd!ijqijlgivqrdia d
lnlkijhrisltdixcidjqij eeilogidxnihdijxbqmiDjqicladihr,ivxkr,idjld
rnxtg-chrjixoekivquloidjqifxv;ijq’riaxbqivlayilulhoinhdjiliulouixc
rjhs-altsqodqtr,irln-chrj,ilogicheq-chrj,iloginjldioxd;ilogidjqinjxeq
sxrrqixci’qbiltqioxnijltgildinxtyia ddhouilogirelrjhouildidjqivxddxb;
blyhouihbstx.qbqodr,iHir ssxrqmiHcixegiTlginqtqijqtqioxn,iH’gidqeeijhb
dxif bsix.qtvxltgilogiralddqti’qbmiDjqk’tqiselkhouidjqigq.heinhdjijhr
qrdldq,iHialoidqeeijhbmiV dijq’rilirhbseqixegirx e,—Tlg,ilogilivql dk
dxxmiVxkr,idjqkirlkidjqitqrdixcijhristxsqtdkihriho.qrdqgiho
exxyhou-uelrrqrmiHinxogqtihcijq’giuh.qilisxxtigq.heiehyqibqidjqibxgqe
xcijhrioxrqm’

“‘Glboikx tiqkqr!injld’ridjldis bsirdxsshouicxt?’itxltqgiTlgoqk,
stqdqoghouioxdidxijl.qijqltgidjqirlhextr’idleymi‘Dj ogqtilnlkildihd!’

“‘Lkq,ilkq,irht,’irlhgiRdqqeyhed,ibqttkilriliathayqdmi‘Eh.qek,ivxkr,
eh.qek,ioxn!’iLoginhdjidjldidjqis bsiaelouqgiehyqichcdkichtq-qouhoqr;
djqibqoidxrrqgidjqhtijldrixccidxihd,ilogiqtqiexouidjldisqa ehltiulrshou
xcidjqie ourinlrijqltginjhajigqoxdqridjqic eeqrdidqorhxoixciehcq’r
 dbxrdiqoqtuhqrm

“Z hddhouidjqis bsildielrd,inhdjidjqitqrdixcijhrivlog,idjqiElyqbloinqod
cxtnltgileeislodhou,ilogirldijhbrqecigxnoixoidjqinhogelrr;ijhriclaq
chqtkitqg,ijhriqkqrivexxgrjxd,iloginhshouidjqistxc rqirnqldictxbijhr
vtxnmiOxninjldiaxwqohouichqogihdinlr,iuqodeqbqo,idjldisxrrqrrqgiTlgoqk
dxibqggeqinhdjir ajilibloihoidjldiaxtsxtqleekiqplrsqtldqgirdldq,iHiyoxn
oxd;iv dirxihdijlssqoqgmiHodxeqtlvekirdthghouilexouidjqigqay,idjqibldq
axbblogqgijhbidxiuqdilivtxxbilogirnqqsigxnoidjqiseloyr,ilogilerxil
rjx.qe,ilogitqbx.qirxbqixccqorh.qiblddqtriaxorqz qodi sxoileexnhouil
shuidxit oildieltuqm

“Oxn,iuqodeqbqo,irnqqshouilirjhs’rigqayildirqlihrilishqaqixcijx rqjxeg
nxtyinjhajihoileeidhbqriv ditluhouiuleqrihritqu eltekilddqogqgidxiq.qtk
q.qohou;ihdijlrivqqoiyoxnoidxivqigxoqihoidjqialrqixcirjhsrilad leek
cx ogqthouildidjqidhbqmiR aj,iuqodeqbqo,ihridjqihoceqphvhehdkixc
rql- rluqrilogidjqihordhoadh.qiex.qixcioqldoqrrihoirqlbqo;irxbqixcinjxb
nx egioxdinheehouekigtxnoinhdjx dichtrdinlrjhouidjqhticlaqrmiV dihoilee
.qrrqeridjhrivtxxbiv rhoqrrihridjqistqrathsdh.qistx.hoaqixcidjqivxkr,
hcivxkridjqtqivqilvxltgmiVqrhgqr,ihdinlridjqirdtxouqtibqoihoidjq
Dxno-Jxidjldijlgivqqoigh.hgqgihodxiulour,idlyhouid torildidjqis bsr;
logivqhouidjqibxrdildjeqdhairqlbloixcidjqbilee,iRdqqeyhedijlgivqqo
tqu eltekilrrhuoqgialsdlhoixcixoqixcidjqiulour;iaxorqz qodekijqirjx eg
jl.qivqqoictqqgictxbilokidth.hleiv rhoqrrioxdiaxooqadqginhdjidt ek
ol dhaleig dhqr,ir ajivqhouidjqialrqinhdjijhriaxbtlgqrmiHibqodhxoilee
djqrqisltdha eltrirxidjldikx iblki ogqtrdlogiqpladekijxnidjhrilcclht
rdxxgivqdnqqoidjqidnxibqom

“V didjqtqinlribxtqidjloidjhr:idjqixtgqtilvx didjqirjx.qeinlrilebxrdilr
selhoekibqlodidxirdhouilogihor ediRdqqeyhed,ilridjx ujiTlgoqkijlgirsld
hoijhriclaqmiLokibloinjxijlriuxoqirlhextihoilinjleq-rjhsinhee
 ogqtrdlogidjhr;ilogileeidjhrilogigx vdeqrrib ajibxtq,idjqiElyqblo
c eekiaxbstqjqogqginjqoidjqibldqi ddqtqgijhriaxbblogmiV dilrijqirld
rdheeicxtilibxbqod,ilogilrijqirdqlgclrdekiexxyqgihodxidjqibldq’r
blehuolodiqkqilogisqtaqh.qgidjqirdlayrixcisxngqt-alryrijqlsqgi sihoijhb
logidjqirexn-bldajirheqodekiv tohouilexouidxnltgridjqb;ilrijq
hordhoadh.qekirlnileeidjhr,idjldirdtlouqicxtvqltloaqilogi onheehouoqrr
dxirdhti sidjqigqqsqtislrrhxoldqoqrrihoilokiletqlgkihtqc eivqhou—l
tqs uoloaqibxrdicqed,injqoicqedildilee,ivkitqleeki.lehlodibqoiq.qoinjqo
luuthq.qg—djhriolbqeqrrisjlodxbicqqehou,iuqodeqbqo,irdxeqix.qt
Rdqqeyhedm

“Djqtqcxtq,ihoijhrixtgholtkidxoq,ixoekiliehddeqivtxyqoivkidjqivxghek
qpjl rdhxoijqinlridqbsxtlthekiho,ijqilornqtqgijhbirlkhouidjldirnqqshou
djqigqayinlrioxdijhriv rhoqrr,ilogijqinx egioxdigxihdmiLogidjqo,
nhdjx dildileeilee ghouidxidjqirjx.qe,ijqisxhodqgidxidjtqqielgrilridjq
a rdxbltkirnqqsqtr;injx,ioxdivqhouivheeqdqgildidjqis bsr,ijlgigxoq
ehddeqixtioxdjhouileeiglkmiDxidjhr,iTlgoqkitqsehqginhdjiloixldj,ihoil
bxrdigxbhoqqthouilogix dtluqx riblooqti oaxoghdhxoleekitqhdqtldhouijhr
axbblog;ibqlonjheqilg.loahoui sxoidjqirdheeirqldqgiElyqblo,inhdjilo
 sehcdqgiaxxsqt’riae vijlbbqtinjhajijqijlgiroldajqgictxbilialryioqlt
vkm

“Jqldqgilogihtthdldqgilrijqinlrivkijhrirslrbxghaidxheildidjqis bsr,icxt
leeijhrichtrdiolbqeqrricqqehouixcicxtvqltloaqidjqirnqldhouiRdqqeyhed
ax egiv diheeivtxxyidjhrivqlthouihoidjqibldq;iv dirxbqjxnirdhee
rbxdjqthouidjqiaxocelutldhxoinhdjhoijhb,inhdjx dirsqlyhouijqitqblhoqg
gxuuqgekitxxdqgidxijhrirqld,idheeildielrdidjqihoaqorqgiTlgoqkirjxxyidjq
jlbbqtinhdjhoilicqnihoajqrixcijhriclaq,ic thx rekiaxbbloghouijhbidxigx
jhrivhgghoum

“Rdqqeyheditxrq,ilogirexnekitqdtqldhouitx ogidjqinhogelrr,irdqlghek
cxeexnqgivkidjqibldqinhdjijhribqolahouijlbbqt,igqehvqtldqekitqsqldqg
jhrihodqodhxoioxdidxixvqkmiRqqhou,ijxnq.qt,idjldijhricxtvqltloaqijlg
oxdidjqirehujdqrdiqccqad,ivkiloilnc eilogi orsqlylveqihodhbldhxoinhdj
jhridnhrdqgijlogijqinltoqgixccidjqicxxehrjilogihocld ldqgiblo;iv dihd
nlridxioxis tsxrqmiLogihoidjhrinlkidjqidnxinqodixoaqirexnekitx ogidjq
nhogelrr;injqo,itqrxe.qgildielrdioxiexouqtidxitqdtqld,ivqdjhoyhouijhb
djldijqijlgioxnicxtvxtoqilrib ajilriaxbsxtdqginhdjijhrij bxt,idjq
Elyqbloisl rqgixoidjqijldajqrilogidj rirsxyqidxidjqixcchaqt:

“‘BtmiTlgoqk,iHinheeioxdixvqkikx miDlyqidjldijlbbqtilnlk,ixtiexxyidx
kx trqecm’iV didjqistqgqrdholdqgibldqiaxbhouirdheeiaexrqtidxijhb,injqtq
djqiElyqbloirdxxgichpqg,ioxnirjxxyidjqijql.kijlbbqtinhdjhoiloihoajixc
jhridqqdj;ibqlonjheqitqsqldhouilirdthouixcihor ccqtlveqibleqghadhxorm
Tqdtqldhouioxdidjqidjx rlogdjisltdixciloihoaj;irdlvvhouijhbihoidjqiqkq
nhdjidjqi ocehoajhouisxohltgixcijhriueloaq,iRdqqeyhed,iaeqoajhouijhr
thujdijlogivqjhogijhbilogiatqqshouekigtlnhouihdivlay,idxegijhr
sqtrqa dxtidjldihcidjqijlbbqtiv diutlwqgijhriajqqyijqi(Rdqqeyhed)inx eg
b tgqtijhbmiV d,iuqodeqbqo,idjqicxxeijlgivqqoivtlogqgicxtidjqirel ujdqt
vkidjqiuxgrmiHbbqghldqekidjqijlbbqtidx ajqgidjqiajqqy;idjqioqpdihordlod
djqiexnqtiflnixcidjqibldqinlrirdx.qihoijhrijqlg;ijqicqeeixoidjqijldaj
rsx dhouivexxgiehyqilinjleqm

“Qtqidjqiatkiax egiuxilcdiRdqqeyhedinlrirjlyhouixoqixcidjqivlayrdlkr
eqlghouicltilexcdidxinjqtqidnxixcijhriaxbtlgqrinqtqirdloghouidjqht
blrdjqlgrmiDjqkinqtqivxdjiAloleeqtrm

“‘Aloleeqtr!’iathqgiGxoiSqgtxmi‘Nqijl.qirqqoiblokinjleq-rjhsrihoix t
jltvx tr,iv dioq.qtijqltgixcikx tiAloleeqtrmiSltgxo:injxiloginjldiltq
djqk?’

“‘Aloleeqtr,iGxo,iltqidjqivxldbqoivqexouhouidxix tiutlogiQthqiAlolem
Kx ib rdijl.qijqltgixcihdm’

“‘Olk,iRqoxt;ijqtqlvx drihoidjhrig ee,inltb,ibxrdielwk,ilogijqtqghdltk
elog,inqiyoxniv diehddeqixcikx ti.huxtx riOxtdjm’

“‘Lkq?iNqeeidjqo,iGxo,itqcheeibkia smiKx tiajhajl’ri.qtkichoq;ilogiqtq
stxaqqghouic tdjqtiHinheeidqeeikqinjldix tiAloleeqtriltq;icxtir aj
hocxtbldhxoiblkidjtxnirhgq-ehujdi sxoibkirdxtkm’

“Cxtidjtqqij ogtqgilogirhpdkibheqr,iuqodeqbqo,idjtx ujidjqiqodhtq
vtqlgdjixcidjqirdldqixciOqniKxty;idjtx ujio bqtx risxs ex riahdhqrilog
bxrdidjth.houi.heeluqr;idjtx ujiexou,ighrble,i ohojlvhdqgirnlbsr,ilog
lcce qod,ia edh.ldqgichqegr,i oth.leeqgicxticqtdhehdk;ivkivheehltg-txxb
logivlt-txxb;idjtx ujidjqijxek-xc-jxehqrixciutqldicxtqrdr;ixoiTxblo
ltajqrix.qtiHoghloith.qtr;idjtx ujir oilogirjlgq;ivkijlsskijqltdrixt
vtxyqo;idjtx ujileeidjqinhgqiaxodtlrdhouiraqoqtkixcidjxrqioxveqiBxjlny
ax odhqr;ilogiqrsqahleek,ivkitxnrixciroxn-njhdqiajlsqer,injxrqirshtqr
rdlogilebxrdiehyqibheqrdxoqr,icexnrixoqiaxodho leirdtqlbixci.qoqdhloek
axtt sdilogixcdqoielneqrriehcqmiDjqtq’rikx tidt qiLrjlodqq,iuqodeqbqo;
djqtqijxneikx tislulor;injqtqikx iq.qtichogidjqb,ioqpdigxxtidxikx ;
 ogqtidjqiexou-ce ouirjlgxn,ilogidjqiro uisldtxohrhouieqqixciaj tajqrm
Cxtivkirxbqia thx ricldlehdk,ilrihdihrixcdqoioxdqgixcikx tibqdtxsxehdlo
ctqqvxxdqtridjldidjqkiq.qtiqoalbsiltx ogidjqijleerixcif rdhaq,irx
rhooqtr,iuqodeqbqo,ibxrdilvx ogihoijxehqrdi.hahohdhqrm

“‘Hridjldilicthltislrrhou?’irlhgiGxoiSqgtx,iexxyhouigxnonltgrihodxidjq
atxngqgiselwwl,inhdjij bxtx riaxoaqtom

“‘Nqeeicxtix tioxtdjqtoicthqog,iGlbqiHrlvqeel’riHoz hrhdhxoinloqriho
Ehbl,’iel ujqgiGxoiRqvlrdhlomi‘Stxaqqg,iRqoxtm’

“‘Libxbqod!iSltgxo!’iathqgiloxdjqtixcidjqiaxbslokmi‘Hoidjqiolbqixcilee
 riEhbqqrq,iHiv digqrhtqidxiqpstqrridxikx ,irhtirlhext,idjldinqijl.qivk
oxibqlorix.qtexxyqgikx tigqehalakihoioxdir vrdhd dhouistqrqodiEhblicxt
ghrdlodi.qohaqihoikx tiaxtt sdiaxbslthrxomiXj!igxioxdivxnilogiexxy
r tsthrqg;ikx iyoxnidjqistx.qtvileeilexouidjhriaxlrd—“Axtt sdilriEhblm”
Hdiv divqltrix dikx tirlkhou,idxx;iaj tajqribxtqiseqodhc eidjlo
vheehltg-dlveqr,ilogicxtiq.qtixsqo—logi“Axtt sdilriEhblm”iRx,idxx,
.qohaq;iHijl.qivqqoidjqtq;idjqijxekiahdkixcidjqiveqrrqgiq.louqehrd,iRdm
Blty!—RdmiGxbhoha,is tuqihd!iKx tia s!iDjloyr:ijqtqiHitqchee;ioxn,ikx 
sx tix dilulhom’

“Ctqqekigqshadqgihoijhrixnoi.xaldhxo,iuqodeqbqo,idjqiAloleeqtinx eg
blyqilichoqigtlbldhaijqtx,irxilv oglodekilogishad tqrz qekinhayqgihr
jqmiEhyqiBltyiLodxok,icxtiglkrilogiglkrilexouijhriutqqo-d tcqg,icexnqtk
Oheq,ijqihogxeqodekicexldr,ixsqoekidxkhouinhdjijhritqg-ajqqyqg
Aeqxsldtl,ithsqohouijhrilsthaxdidjhuji sxoidjqir ookigqaymiV dilrjxtq,
leeidjhriqccqbholakihriglrjqgmiDjqivthuloghrjiu hrqinjhajidjqiAloleeqt
rxistx gekirsxtdr;ijhrirex ajqgilogiulhek-thvvxoqgijldivqdxyqoijhr
utlogicqld tqrmiLidqttxtidxidjqirbhehouihooxaqoaqixcidjqi.heeluqr
djtx ujinjhajijqicexldr;ijhrirnltdi.hrluqilogivxegirnluuqtiltqioxd
 orj ooqgihoiahdhqrmiXoaqili.lulvxogixoijhrixnoialole,iHijl.qitqaqh.qg
uxxgid torictxbixoqixcidjqrqiAloleeqtr;iHidjloyijhbijqltdhek;inx eg
clhoivqioxdi outldqc e;iv dihdihrixcdqoixoqixcidjqisthbqitqgqqbhou
z lehdhqrixcikx tibloixci.hxeqoaq,idjldildidhbqrijqijlrilrirdhcciloiltb
dxivlayilisxxtirdtlouqtihoilirdtlhd,ilridxise ogqtilinqledjkixoqmiHo
r b,iuqodeqbqo,injldidjqinhegoqrrixcidjhrialoleiehcqihr,ihr
qbsjldhaleekiq.hoaqgivkidjhr;idjldix tinheginjleq-chrjqtkiaxodlhorirx
blokixcihdribxrdichohrjqgiutlg ldqr,ilogidjldiraltaqilokitlaqixc
bloyhog,iqpaqsdiRkgoqkibqo,iltqirxib ajighrdt rdqgivkix tinjlehou
alsdlhormiOxtigxqrihdildileeighbhohrjidjqia thx roqrrixcidjhriblddqt,
djldidxiblokidjx rlogrixcix tit tleivxkrilogikx ouibqoivxtoilexouihdr
ehoq,idjqistxvldhxoltkiehcqixcidjqiUtlogiAloleic tohrjqridjqirxeq
dtlorhdhxoivqdnqqoiz hqdekitqlshouihoiliAjthrdhloiaxto-chqeg,ilog
tqayeqrrekisex ujhouidjqinldqtrixcidjqibxrdivltvlthairqlrm

“‘Hirqq!iHirqq!’ihbsqd x rekiqpaelhbqgiGxoiSqgtx,irsheehouijhriajhajl
 sxoijhrirhe.qtkit cceqrmi‘Oxioqqgidxidtl.qe!iDjqinxteg’rixoqiEhblmiH
jlgidjx ujd,ioxn,idjldildikx tidqbsqtldqiOxtdjidjqiuqoqtldhxorinqtq
axegilogijxekilridjqijheerm—V didjqirdxtkm’

“Hieqcdixcc,iuqodeqbqo,injqtqidjqiElyqbloirjxxyidjqivlayrdlkmiJltgek
jlgijqigxoqirx,injqoijqinlrir ttx ogqgivkidjqidjtqqif ohxtibldqrilog
djqicx tijltsxxoqqtr,injxileeiatxngqgijhbidxidjqigqaymiV direhghouigxno
djqitxsqriehyqivleqc eiaxbqdr,idjqidnxiAloleeqtrit rjqgihodxidjq
 stxlt,ilogirx ujdidxigtluidjqhtibloix dixcihdidxnltgridjqicxtqalrdeqm
Xdjqtrixcidjqirlhextrifxhoqginhdjidjqbihoidjhrilddqbsd,ilogilidnhrdqg
d tbxheiqor qg;injheqirdloghouix dixcijltb’rinlk,idjqi.lehlodialsdlho
gloaqgi silogigxnoinhdjilinjleq-shyq,ialeehoui sxoijhrixcchaqtridx
blojlogeqidjldildtxahx rirax ogtqe,ilogirbxyqijhbilexouidxidjq
z ltdqt-gqaymiLdihodqt.ler,ijqitloiaexrqi sidxidjqitq.xe.houivxtgqtixc
djqiaxoc rhxo,ilogistkhouihodxidjqijqltdixcihdinhdjijhrishyq,irx ujdidx
sthayix didjqixvfqadixcijhritqrqodbqodmiV diRdqqeyhedilogijhr
gqrsqtlgxqrinqtqidxxib ajicxtidjqbilee;idjqkir aaqqgqgihoiulhohouidjq
cxtqalrdeqigqay,injqtq,ijlrdhekireqnhouilvx didjtqqixticx tieltuqialryr
hoiliehoqinhdjidjqinhogelrr,idjqrqirql-Slthrhloriqodtqoajqgidjqbrqe.qr
vqjhogidjqivltthalgqm

“‘Axbqix dixcidjld,ikqishtldqr!’itxltqgidjqialsdlho,ioxnibqolahouidjqb
nhdjilishrdxeihoiqlajijlog,if rdivtx ujdidxijhbivkidjqirdqnltgmi‘Axbq
x dixcidjld,ikqia d-djtxldr!’

“Rdqqeyhedieqlsqgixoidjqivltthalgq,ilogirdthghoui silogigxnoidjqtq,
gqchqgidjqinxtrdidjqishrdxeriax egigx;iv diul.qidjqialsdlhoidx
 ogqtrdlogighrdhoadek,idjldijhri(Rdqqeyhed’r)igqldjinx egivqidjqirhuole
cxtilib tgqtx rib dhokixoidjqisltdixcileeijlogrmiCqlthouihoijhrijqltd
eqrdidjhribhujdistx.qiv didxxidt q,idjqialsdlhoiliehddeqigqrhrdqg,iv d
rdheeiaxbblogqgidjqihor tuqodrihordlodekidxitqd toidxidjqhtig dkm

“‘Nheeikx istxbhrqioxdidxidx aji r,ihcinqigx?’igqblogqgidjqht
thoueqlgqtm

“‘D toidx!id toidx!—Hiblyqioxistxbhrq;—dxikx tig dk!iGxikx inlodidx
rhoyidjqirjhs,ivkiyoxayhouixccildilidhbqiehyqidjhr?iD toidx!’ilogijq
xoaqibxtqitlhrqgilishrdxem

“‘Rhoyidjqirjhs?’iathqgiRdqqeyhedmi‘Lkq,ieqdijqtirhoymiOxdilibloixci r
d toridx,i oeqrrikx irnqltioxdidxitlhrqilitxsq-kltoilulhordi rmiNjld
rlkikq,ibqo?’id tohouidxijhriaxbtlgqrmiLichqtaqiajqqtinlridjqht
tqrsxorqm

“DjqiElyqbloioxnisldtxeeqgidjqivltthalgq,ileeidjqinjheqiyqqshouijhriqkq
xoidjqiAlsdlho,ilogifqtyhouix dir ajirqodqoaqrilridjqrq:—‘Hd’rioxdix t
cl ed;inqighgo’dinlodihd;iHidxegijhbidxidlyqijhrijlbbqtilnlk;ihdinlr
vxk’riv rhoqrr;ijqibhujdijl.qiyoxnoibqivqcxtqidjhr;iHidxegijhbioxdidx
sthayidjqiv cclex;iHivqehq.qiHijl.qivtxyqoilichouqtijqtqilulhordijhr
a trqgifln;ilho’didjxrqibhoahouiyoh.qrigxnoihoidjqicxtqalrdeqidjqtq,
bqo?iexxyidxidjxrqijlogrshyqr,ibkijqltdhqrmiAlsdlho,ivkiUxg,iexxyidx
kx trqec;irlkidjqinxtg;igxo’divqilicxxe;icxtuqdihdilee;inqiltqitqlgkidx
d toidx;idtqldi rigqaqodek,iloginq’tqikx tibqo;iv dinqinxo’divq
cexuuqgm’

“‘D toidx!iHiblyqioxistxbhrqr,id toidx,iHirlk!’

“‘Exxyikq,ioxn,’iathqgidjqiElyqblo,icehouhouix dijhriltbidxnltgrijhb,
‘djqtqiltqilicqnixci rijqtqi(logiHilbixoqixcidjqb)injxijl.qirjhssqgicxt
djqiat hrq,ig’kqirqq;ioxnilrikx inqeeiyoxn,irht,inqialoiaelhbix t
ghrajltuqilrirxxoilridjqiloajxtihrigxno;irxinqigxo’dinlodilitxn;ihd’r
oxdix tihodqtqrd;inqinlodidxivqisqlaqlveq;inqiltqitqlgkidxinxty,iv dinq
nxo’divqicexuuqgm’

“‘D toidx!’itxltqgidjqiAlsdlhom

“Rdqqeyhediueloaqgitx ogijhbilibxbqod,ilogidjqoirlhg:—‘Hidqeeikx injld
hdihrioxn,iAlsdlho,itldjqtidjloiyheeikq,ilogivqij ouicxtir ajilirjlvvk
tlrale,inqinxo’diehcdilijlogilulhordikqi oeqrrikqilddlayi r;iv didhee
kx irlkidjqinxtgilvx dioxdicexuuhoui r,inqigxo’digxilijlog’rid tom’

“‘Gxnoihodxidjqicxtqalrdeqidjqo,igxnoinhdjikq,iH’eeiyqqsikqidjqtqidhee
kq’tqirhayixcihdmiGxnoikqiuxm’

“‘Rjleeinq?’iathqgidjqithoueqlgqtidxijhribqomiBxrdixcidjqbinqtqilulhord
hd;iv dildieqoudj,ihoixvqghqoaqidxiRdqqeyhed,idjqkistqaqgqgijhbigxno
hodxidjqhtigltyigqo,iutxnehouekighrlssqlthou,iehyqivqltrihodxilial.qm

“LridjqiElyqblo’rivltqijqlginlrif rdieq.qeinhdjidjqiseloyr,idjqiAlsdlho
logijhrisxrrqieqlsqgidjqivltthalgq,ilogitlshgekigtlnhouix.qtidjqirehgq
xcidjqira ddeq,iselodqgidjqhtiutx sixcijlogri sxoihd,ilogiex gekialeeqg
cxtidjqirdqnltgidxivthouidjqijql.kivtlrrislgexayivqexouhouidxidjq
axbslohxonlkmiDjqoixsqohouidjqirehgqiliehddeq,idjqiAlsdlhoinjhrsqtqg
rxbqdjhouigxnoidjqiatlay,iaexrqgihd,ilogid toqgidjqiyqki sxoidjqb—dqo
hoio bvqt—eql.houixoigqayirxbqidnqodkixtibxtq,injxidj ricltijlg
tqblhoqgioq dtlem

“Leeiohujdilinhgq-lnlyqinldajinlriyqsdivkileeidjqixcchaqtr,icxtnltgilog
lcd,iqrsqahleekilvx didjqicxtqalrdeqira ddeqilogicxtqijldajnlk;ild
njhajielrdiselaqihdinlricqltqgidjqihor tuqodribhujdiqbqtuq,ilcdqt
vtqlyhouidjtx ujidjqiv eyjqlgivqexnmiV didjqijx trixcigltyoqrrislrrqg
hoisqlaq;idjqibqoinjxirdheeitqblhoqgildidjqhtig dkidxhehouijltgildidjq
s bsr,injxrqiaehoyhouilogiaeloyhouildihodqt.leridjtx ujidjqigtqltk
ohujdighrbleekitqrx ogqgidjtx ujidjqirjhsm

“Ldir othrqidjqiAlsdlhoinqodicxtnltg,ilogiyoxayhouixoidjqigqay,
r bbxoqgidjqisthrxoqtridxinxty;iv dinhdjilikqeeidjqkitqc rqgmiNldqtinlr
djqoiexnqtqgigxnoidxidjqb,ilogiliax seqixcijlogc erixcivhra hdinqtq
dxrrqgilcdqtihd;injqoilulhoid tohouidjqiyqki sxoidjqbilogisxayqdhouihd,
djqiAlsdlhoitqd toqgidxidjqiz ltdqt-gqaymiDnhaqiq.qtkiglkicxtidjtqq
glkridjhrinlritqsqldqg;iv dixoidjqicx tdjibxtohouiliaxoc rqgintlouehou,
logidjqoilira ccehouinlrijqltg,ilridjqia rdxbltkir bbxorinlrigqeh.qtqg;
logir ggqoekicx tibqoiv trdi sictxbidjqicxtqalrdeq,irlkhouidjqkinqtq
tqlgkidxid toidxmiDjqicqdhgiaexrqoqrrixcidjqilht,ilogiliclbhrjhouighqd,
 ohdqgisqtjlsridxirxbqicqltrixci edhbldqitqdthv dhxo,ijlgiaxordtlhoqg
djqbidxir ttqogqtildighratqdhxomiQbvxegqoqgivkidjhr,idjqiAlsdlho
tqhdqtldqgijhrigqblogidxidjqitqrd,iv diRdqqeyhedirjx dqgi sidxijhbil
dqtthchaijhodidxirdxsijhrivlvvehouilogivqdlyqijhbrqecinjqtqijq
vqexouqgmiXoidjqichcdjibxtohouidjtqqixdjqtrixcidjqib dhoqqtrivxedqgi s
hodxidjqilhtictxbidjqigqrsqtldqiltbrivqexnidjldirx ujdidxitqrdtlho
djqbmiXoekidjtqqinqtqieqcdm

“‘Vqddqtid toidx,ioxn?’irlhgidjqiAlsdlhoinhdjilijqltdeqrrifqqtm

“‘Rj di ri silulho,inheeikq!’iathqgiRdqqeyhedm

“‘Xjiaqtdlhoek,’irlhgidjqiAlsdlho,ilogidjqiyqkiaehayqgm

“Hdinlrildidjhrisxhod,iuqodeqbqo,idjldiqotluqgivkidjqigqcqadhxoixc
rq.qoixcijhricxtbqtilrrxahldqr,ilogird ouivkidjqibxayhoui.xhaqidjldijlg
elrdijlheqgijhb,ilogiblggqoqgivkijhriexouiqodxbvbqodihoiliselaqilr
velayilridjqivxnqerixcigqrslht;ihdinlridjqoidjldiRdqqeyhedistxsxrqgidx
djqidnxiAloleeqtr,idj ricltilssltqodekixcixoqibhoginhdjijhb,idxiv trd
x dixcidjqhtijxeqildidjqioqpdir bbxohouixcidjqiultthrxo;ilogiltbqginhdj
djqhtiyqqoibhoahouiyoh.qri(exou,iatqraqodha,ijql.kihbseqbqodrinhdjil
jlogeqildiqlajiqog)it oilb ayictxbidjqivxnrsthdidxidjqidlcctlhe;ilogihc
vkilokigq.hehrjoqrrixcigqrsqtldhxoisxrrhveq,irqhwqidjqirjhsmiCxt
jhbrqec,ijqinx egigxidjhr,ijqirlhg,injqdjqtidjqkifxhoqgijhbixtioxdm
Djldinlridjqielrdiohujdijqirjx egirsqogihoidjldigqomiV didjqirajqbqibqd
nhdjioxixssxrhdhxoixoidjqisltdixcidjqixdjqtidnx;idjqkirnxtqidjqkinqtq
tqlgkicxtidjld,ixticxtilokixdjqtiblgidjhou,icxtilokdjhouihoirjxtdiv dil
r ttqogqtmiLoginjldinlribxtq,idjqkiqlajihorhrdqgi sxoivqhouidjqichtrd
bloixoigqay,injqoidjqidhbqidxiblyqidjqit rjirjx egiaxbqmiV didxidjhr
djqhtieqlgqtilrichqtaqekixvfqadqg,itqrqt.houidjldisthxthdkicxtijhbrqec;
sltdha eltekilrijhridnxiaxbtlgqrinx egioxdikhqeg,idjqixoqidxidjqixdjqt,
hoidjqiblddqt;ilogivxdjixcidjqbiax egioxdivqichtrd,icxtidjqielggqt
nx egiv dilgbhdixoqibloildilidhbqmiLogijqtq,iuqodeqbqo,idjqicx eiselk
xcidjqrqibhratqlodrib rdiaxbqix dm

“ sxoijqlthouidjqictlodhaistxfqadixcidjqhtieqlgqt,iqlajihoijhrixno
rqsltldqirx eijlgir ggqoekiehujdqg,ihdinx egirqqb,i sxoidjqirlbqishqaq
xcidtqlajqtk,iolbqek:idxivqicxtqbxrdihoivtqlyhouix d,ihoixtgqtidxivq
djqichtrdixcidjqidjtqq,idjx ujidjqielrdixcidjqidqo,idxir ttqogqt;ilog
djqtqvkirqa tqinjldq.qtirbleeiajloaqixcisltgxoir ajiaxog adibhujd
bqthdmiV dinjqoiRdqqeyhediblgqiyoxnoijhrigqdqtbholdhxoirdheeidxieqlg
djqbidxidjqielrd,idjqkihoirxbqinlk,ivkirxbqir vdeqiajqbhrdtkixc
.heelok,ibhpqgidjqhtivqcxtqirqatqdidtqlajqthqridxuqdjqt;iloginjqoidjqht
eqlgqticqeeihodxiligxwq,i.qtvleekixsqoqgidjqhtirx eridxiqlajixdjqtiho
djtqqirqodqoaqr;ilogivx ogidjqireqqsqtinhdjiaxtgr,ilogiuluuqgijhbinhdj
axtgr;ilogirjthqyqgix dicxtidjqiAlsdlhoildibhgohujdm

“Djhoyhouib tgqtildijlog,ilogirbqeehouihoidjqigltyicxtidjqivexxg,ijq
logileeijhriltbqgibldqrilogijltsxxoqqtrit rjqgicxtidjqicxtqalrdeqmiHoil
cqnibho dqridjqira ddeqinlrixsqoqg,ilog,ivx ogijlogilogicxxd,idjqirdhee
rdt uuehouithoueqlgqtinlrirjx.qgi sihodxidjqilhtivkijhrisqtchghx r
leehqr,injxildixoaqiaelhbqgidjqijxoxtixcirqa thouilibloinjxijlgivqqo
c eekithsqicxtib tgqtmiV dileeidjqrqinqtqiaxeeltqg,ilogigtluuqgilexou
djqigqayiehyqigqlgialddeq;ilog,irhgqivkirhgq,inqtqirqhwqgi sihodxidjq
bhwwqoithuuhou,iehyqidjtqqiz ltdqtrixcibqld,ilogidjqtqidjqkij ouidhee
bxtohoumi‘Glboikq,’iathqgidjqiAlsdlho,islahouidxilogictxivqcxtqidjqb,
‘djqi. ed tqrinx egioxdidx ajikq,ikqi.heelhor!’

“Ldir othrqijqir bbxoqgileeijlogr;ilogirqsltldhouidjxrqinjxijlg
tqvqeeqgictxbidjxrqinjxijlgidlyqoioxisltdihoidjqib dhok,ijqidxegidjq
cxtbqtidjldijqijlgiliuxxgibhogidxicexuidjqbileeitx og—djx ujd,i sxoidjq
njxeq,ijqinx egigxirx—jqix ujdidx—f rdhaqigqblogqgihd;iv dicxtidjq
stqrqod,iaxorhgqthouidjqhtidhbqekir ttqogqt,ijqinx egieqdidjqbiuxinhdj
litqsthblog,injhajijqilaaxtghouekilgbhohrdqtqgihoidjqi.qtola eltm

“‘V dilricxtikx ,ikqialtthxoitxu qr,’id tohouidxidjqidjtqqibqoihoidjq
thuuhou—‘cxtikx ,iHibqloidxibhoaqikqi sicxtidjqidtk-sxdr;’ilog,irqhwhou
litxsq,ijqilssehqgihdinhdjileeijhribhujdidxidjqivlayrixcidjqidnx
dtlhdxtr,idheeidjqkikqeeqgioxibxtq,iv diehcqeqrrekij ouidjqhtijqlgr
rhgqnlkr,ilridjqidnxiat ahchqgidjhq.qriltqigtlnom

“‘Bkinthrdihrirstlhoqginhdjikq!’ijqiathqg,ildielrd;i‘v didjqtqihrirdhee
txsqiqox ujieqcdicxtikx ,ibkichoqivlodlb,idjldinx ego’diuh.qi smiDlyq
djldiuluictxbijhribx dj,ilogieqdi rijqltinjldijqialoirlkicxtijhbrqecm’

“Cxtilibxbqodidjqiqpjl rdqgib dhoqqtiblgqilidtqb ex ribxdhxoixcijhr
atlbsqgiflnr,ilogidjqoislhoc eekidnhrdhouitx ogijhrijqlg,irlhgihoil
rxtdixcijhrr,i‘NjldiHirlkihridjhr—logibhogihdinqee—hcikx icexuibq,iH
b tgqtikx !’

“‘Rlkikqirx?idjqoirqqijxnikqicthujdqoibq’—logidjqiAlsdlhoigtqnixccinhdj
djqitxsqidxirdthyqm

“‘Vqrdioxd,’ijhrrqgidjqiElyqblom

“‘V diHib rd,’—logidjqitxsqinlrixoaqibxtqigtlnoivlayicxtidjqirdtxyqm

“Rdqqeyhedijqtqijhrrqgix dirxbqdjhou,ihol ghveqidxileeiv didjqiAlsdlho;
njx,idxidjqilblwqbqodixcileeijlogr,irdltdqgivlay,islaqgidjqigqay
tlshgekidnxixtidjtqqidhbqr,ilogidjqoir ggqoekidjtxnhouigxnoijhritxsq,
rlhg,i‘Hinxo’digxihd—eqdijhbiux—a dijhbigxno:ig’kqijqlt?’

“V dilridjqif ohxtibldqrinqtqij ttkhouidxiqpqa dqidjqixtgqt,ilisleq
blo,inhdjilivlogluqgijqlg,ilttqrdqgidjqb—TlgoqkidjqiajhqcibldqmiQ.qt
rhoaqidjqivexn,ijqijlgielhoihoijhrivqtdj;iv didjldibxtohou,ijqlthouidjq
d b edixoidjqigqay,ijqijlgiatqsdix d,ilogidj ricltijlginldajqgidjq
njxeqiraqoqmiR ajinlridjqirdldqixcijhribx dj,idjldijqiax egijltgek
rsqly;iv dib bvehouirxbqdjhouilvx di_jhr_ivqhouinheehouilogilveqidxigx
njldidjqialsdlhoigltqgioxdilddqbsd,ijqiroldajqgidjqitxsqilogilg.loaqg
dxijhrishohxoqgicxqm

“‘Kx iltqiliaxnltg!’ijhrrqgidjqiElyqblom

“‘RxiHilb,iv didlyqidjldm’iDjqibldqinlrihoidjqi.qtkiladixcirdthyhou,
njqoiloxdjqtijhrrirdlkqgijhri sehcdqgiltbmiJqisl rqg:ilogidjqoisl rhou
oxibxtq,iblgqiuxxgijhrinxtg,irshdqixciRdqqeyhed’ridjtqld,injldq.qtidjld
bhujdijl.qivqqomiDjqidjtqqibqoinqtqidjqoia digxno,ileeijlogrinqtq
d toqgidx,ilog,ir eeqoekinxtyqgivkidjqibxxgkirqlbqo,idjqihtxois bsr
aelouqgilrivqcxtqm

“F rdilcdqtigltyidjldiglk,injqoixoqinldajijlgitqdhtqgivqexn,iliaelbxt
nlrijqltgihoidjqicxtqalrdeq;ilogidjqidnxidtqbvehouidtlhdxtrit oohoui s,
vqrhquqgidjqialvhoigxxt,irlkhouidjqkig trdioxdiaxorxtdinhdjidjqiatqnm
Qodtqldhqr,ia ccr,ilogiyhayriax egioxdigth.qidjqbivlay,irxildidjqhtixno
hordloaqidjqkinqtqis digxnoihoidjqirjhs’rit oicxtirle.ldhxomiRdhee,iox
rhuoixcib dhokitqlssqltqgilbxouidjqitqrdmiXoidjqiaxodtltk,ihdirqqbqg,
djldiblhoekildiRdqqeyhed’rihordhuldhxo,idjqkijlgitqrxe.qgidxiblhodlho
djqirdthadqrdisqlaqc eoqrr,ixvqkileeixtgqtridxidjqielrd,ilog,injqoidjq
rjhsitqlajqgisxtd,igqrqtdijqtihoilivxgkmiV dihoixtgqtidxihor tqidjq
rsqqghqrdiqogidxidjqi.xkluq,idjqkileeilutqqgidxiloxdjqtidjhou—olbqek,
oxdidxirhouix dicxtinjleqr,ihoialrqilokirjx egivqighrax.qtqgmiCxt,
rshdqixcijqtieqly,ilogirshdqixcileeijqtixdjqtisqther,idjqiDxno-Jxirdhee
blhodlhoqgijqtiblrd-jqlgr,ilogijqtialsdlhoinlrif rdilrinheehouidxiexnqt
cxtilichrjidjldibxbqod,ilrixoidjqiglkijhriatlcdichtrdirdt ayidjq
at hrhouiutx og;ilogiTlgoqkidjqibldqinlriz hdqilritqlgkidxiajlouqijhr
vqtdjicxtilivxld,iloginhdjijhrivlogluqgibx djirqqyidxiuluihoigqldjidjq
.hdleiflnixcidjqinjleqm

“V didjx ujidjqiElyqbloijlgihog aqgidjqirqlbqoidxilgxsdidjhrirxtdixc
slrrh.qoqrrihoidjqhtiaxog ad,ijqiyqsdijhrixnoiax orqei(ldieqlrdidhee
leeinlrix.qt)iaxoaqtohouijhrixnoistxsqtilogisth.ldqitq.qouqi sxoidjq
bloinjxijlgird ouijhbihoidjqi.qodthaeqrixcijhrijqltdmiJqinlrihoiTlgoqk
djqiajhqcibldq’rinldaj;ilogilrihcidjqihocld ldqgibloirx ujdidxit oibxtq
djloijlecinlkidxibqqdijhrigxxb,ilcdqtidjqiraqoqildidjqithuuhou,ijq
horhrdqg,ilulhordidjqiqpstqrriax orqeixcidjqialsdlho,i sxoitqr bhouidjq
jqlgixcijhrinldajildiohujdmi sxoidjhr,ilogixoqixtidnxixdjqt
ahta brdloaqr,iRdqqeyhedirkrdqbldhaleekiv hedidjqiseloixcijhritq.qouqm

“G thouidjqiohujd,iTlgoqkijlgiloi orqlbloehyqinlkixcirhddhouixoidjq
v enltyrixcidjqiz ltdqt-gqay,ilogieqlohouijhriltbi sxoidjqiu onleqixc
djqivxldinjhajinlrijxhrdqgi sidjqtq,iliehddeqilvx.qidjqirjhs’rirhgqmiHo
djhrilddhd gq,ihdinlrinqeeiyoxno,ijqirxbqdhbqrigxwqgmiDjqtqinlril
axorhgqtlveqi.laloakivqdnqqoidjqivxldilogidjqirjhs,ilogigxnoivqdnqqo
djhrinlridjqirqlmiRdqqeyhedialea eldqgijhridhbq,ilogicx ogidjldijhr
oqpdidthayildidjqijqebinx egiaxbqitx ogildidnxix’aexay,ihoidjqibxtohou
xcidjqidjhtgiglkictxbidjldihoinjhajijqijlgivqqoivqdtlkqgmiLdijhr
eqhr tq,ijqiqbsexkqgidjqihodqt.leihoivtlhghouirxbqdjhoui.qtkialtqc eek
hoijhrinldajqrivqexnm

“‘Njldiltqikx iblyhouidjqtq?’irlhgilirjhsbldqm

“‘Njldigxikx idjhoy?injldigxqrihdiexxyiehyq?’

“‘Ehyqilielokltgicxtikx tivlu;iv dihd’riloixggixoq,irqqbridxibqm’

“‘Kqr,itldjqtixgghrj,’irlhgidjqiElyqblo,ijxeghouihdildiltb’rieqoudj
vqcxtqijhb;i‘v diHidjhoyihdinheeilornqtmiRjhsbldq,iHijl.qo’diqox uj
dnhoq,—jl.qikx ilok?’

“V didjqtqinlrioxoqihoidjqicxtqalrdeqm

“‘DjqoiHib rdiuqdirxbqictxbixegiTlg;’ilogijqitxrqidxiuxilcdm

“‘Kx igxo’dibqloidxiuxilivquuhouidxi_jhb!_’irlhgilirlhextm

“‘Njkioxd?iGxikx idjhoyijqinxo’digxibqilid to,injqoihd’ridxijqes
jhbrqecihoidjqiqog,irjhsbldq?’ilogiuxhouidxidjqibldq,ijqiexxyqgildijhb
z hqdek,ilogilryqgijhbicxtirxbqidnhoqidxibqogijhrijlbbxaymiHdinlriuh.qo
jhb—oqhdjqtidnhoqioxtielokltginqtqirqqoilulho;iv didjqioqpdiohujdilo
htxoivlee,iaexrqekioqddqg,isltdekitxeeqgictxbidjqisxayqdixcidjq
Elyqblo’ribxoyqkiflayqd,ilrijqinlrid ayhouidjqiaxldihodxijhrijlbbxay
cxtilisheexnmiDnqodk-cx tijx trilcdqt,ijhridthayildidjqirheqod
jqeb—ohujidxidjqibloinjxinlrilsdidxigxwqix.qtidjqiutl.qilenlkritqlgk
g uidxidjqirqlblo’rijlog—djldicldleijx tinlridjqoidxiaxbq;ilogihoidjq
cxtq-xtglhohouirx eixciRdqqeyhed,idjqibldqinlriletqlgkirdltyilog
rdtqdajqgilriliaxtsrq,inhdjijhricxtqjqlgiat rjqgihom

“V d,iuqodeqbqo,ilicxxeirl.qgidjqinx eg-vqib tgqtqtictxbidjqivexxgk
gqqgijqijlgiselooqgmiKqdiaxbseqdqitq.qouqijqijlg,iloginhdjx divqhouidjq
l.qouqtmiCxtivkilibkrdqthx ricldlehdk,iJql.qoihdrqecirqqbqgidxirdqsiho
dxidlyqix dixcijhrijlogrihodxihdrixnoidjqiglbohouidjhouijqinx egijl.q
gxoqm

“Hdinlrif rdivqdnqqoiglkvtqlyilogir othrqixcidjqibxtohouixcidjqirqaxog
glk,injqoidjqkinqtqinlrjhouigxnoidjqigqayr,idjldilird shgiDqoqthccq
blo,igtlnhouinldqtihoidjqiblho-ajlhor,ileeildixoaqirjx dqgix d,i‘Djqtq
rjqitxeer!idjqtqirjqitxeer!’iFqr ,injldilinjleq!iHdinlriBxvkiGhaym

“‘BxvkiGhay!’iathqgiGxoiRqvlrdhlo;i‘RdmiGxbhoha!iRhtirlhext,iv digx
njleqrijl.qiajthrdqohour?iNjxbialeeikx iBxvkiGhay?’

“‘Li.qtkinjhdq,ilogiclbx r,ilogibxrdigqlgekihbbxtdleibxordqt,iGxo;—v d
djldinx egivqidxxiexouilirdxtkm’

“‘Jxn?ijxn?’iathqgileeidjqikx ouiRslohltgr,iatxnghoum

“‘Olk,iGxor,iGxor—olk,iolk!iHialooxditqjqltrqidjldioxnmiEqdibqiuqdibxtq
hodxidjqilht,iRhtrm’

“‘Djqiajhajl!idjqiajhajl!’iathqgiGxoiSqgtx;i‘x ti.huxtx ricthqogiexxyr
clhod;—cheei sijhriqbsdkiuelrr!’

“Oxioqqg,iuqodeqbqo;ixoqibxbqod,ilogiHistxaqqgm—Oxn,iuqodeqbqo,irx
r ggqoekisqtaqh.houidjqiroxnkinjleqinhdjhoichcdkikltgrixcidjq
rjhs—cxtuqdc eixcidjqiaxbsladilbxouidjqiatqn—hoidjqiqpahdqbqodixcidjq
bxbqod,idjqiDqoqthccqibloijlgihordhoadh.qekilogiho.xe odlthekiehcdqg
jhri.xhaqicxtidjqibxordqt,idjx ujicxtirxbqiehddeqidhbqislrdihdijlgivqqo
selhoekivqjqegictxbidjqidjtqqir eeqoiblrd-jqlgrmiLeeinlrioxnilisjtqorkm
‘DjqiNjhdqiNjleq—djqiNjhdqiNjleq!’inlridjqiatkictxbialsdlho,ibldqr,ilog
jltsxxoqqtr,injx,i ogqdqttqgivkicqltc eit bx tr,inqtqileeilophx ridx
alsd tqirxiclbx rilogistqahx rilichrj;injheqidjqigxuuqgiatqniqkqg
lryloaq,iloginhdjia trqr,idjqilssleehouivql dkixcidjqi.lrdibheykiblrr,
djldiehdi sivkilijxthwxodleirslouehouir o,irjhcdqgilogiuehrdqoqgiehyqil
eh.houixsleihoidjqive qibxtohouirqlmiUqodeqbqo,ilirdtlouqicldlehdk
sqt.lgqridjqinjxeqialtqqtixcidjqrqiq.qodr,ilrihci.qthekiblssqgix d
vqcxtqidjqinxtegihdrqecinlriajltdqgmiDjqib dhoqqtinlridjqivxnrbloixc
djqibldq,iloginjqoiclrdidxilichrj,ihdinlrijhrig dkidxirhdioqpdijhb,
njheqiTlgoqkirdxxgi sinhdjijhrieloaqihoidjqistxn,ilogijl eihoixt
relayqoidjqiehoq,ildidjqinxtgixciaxbblogmiBxtqx.qt,injqoidjqicx tivxldr
nqtqiexnqtqg,idjqibldq’riuxdidjqirdltd;ilogioxoqijxneqgibxtqichqtaqek
nhdjigqehujdidjloighgiRdqqeyhed,ilrijqirdtlhoqgildijhrixltmiLcdqtil
rdhccis ee,idjqhtijltsxxoqqtiuxdiclrd,ilog,irsqltihoijlog,iTlgoqk
rstlouidxidjqivxnmiJqinlrilenlkrilic thx riblo,ihdirqqbr,ihoilivxldm
Logioxnijhrivlogluqgiatkinlr,idxivqlajijhbixoidjqinjleq’ridxsbxrdivlaym
Oxdjhouiexldj,ijhrivxnrbloijl eqgijhbi silogi s,idjtx ujilivehoghou
cxlbidjldiveqodidnxinjhdqoqrrqridxuqdjqt;idheeixcilir ggqoidjqivxld
rdt ayilrilulhordilir oyqoieqguq,ilogiyqqehouix.qt,irsheeqgix didjq
rdloghouibldqmiDjldihordlod,ilrijqicqeeixoidjqinjleq’rirehssqtkivlay,
djqivxldithujdqg,iloginlriglrjqgilrhgqivkidjqirnqee,injheqiTlgoqkinlr
dxrrqgix.qtihodxidjqirql,ixoidjqixdjqticeloyixcidjqinjleqmiJqirdt ay
x didjtx ujidjqirstlk,ilog,icxtiloihordlod,inlrighbekirqqoidjtx ujidjld
.qhe,inhegekirqqyhouidxitqbx.qijhbrqecictxbidjqiqkqixciBxvkiGhaymiV d
djqinjleqit rjqgitx ogihoilir ggqoiblqerdtxb;irqhwqgidjqirnhbbqt
vqdnqqoijhriflnr;ilogitqlthouijhuji sinhdjijhb,ise ouqgijqlgexouilulho,
loginqodigxnom

“Bqlodhbq,ildidjqichtrdidlsixcidjqivxld’rivxddxb,idjqiElyqbloijlg
relayqoqgidjqiehoq,irxilridxigtxsilrdqtoictxbidjqinjhtesxxe;ialebek
exxyhouixo,ijqidjx ujdijhrixnoidjx ujdrmiV dilir ggqo,idqtthcha,
gxnonltgifqtyhouixcidjqivxld,iz hayekivtx ujdijhriyohcqidxidjqiehoqmiJq
a dihd;ilogidjqinjleqinlrictqqmiV d,ildirxbqighrdloaq,iBxvkiGhayitxrq
lulho,inhdjirxbqidlddqtrixciTlgoqk’ritqginxxeeqoirjhtd,ial ujdihoidjq
dqqdjidjldijlgigqrdtxkqgijhbmiLeeicx tivxldriul.qiajlrqilulho;iv didjq
njleqiqe gqgidjqb,ilogicholeekinjxeekighrlssqltqgm

“Hoiuxxgidhbq,idjqiDxno-Jxitqlajqgijqtisxtd—lirl.luq,irxehdltk
selaq—njqtqioxiah.hehwqgiatqld tqitqrhgqgmiDjqtq,ijqlgqgivkidjq
Elyqblo,ileeiv dich.qixtirhpixcidjqicxtqblrdbqoigqehvqtldqekigqrqtdqg
lbxouidjqislebr;iq.qod leek,ilrihdid toqgix d,irqhwhouilieltuqigx veq
nlt-aloxqixcidjqirl.luqr,ilogirqddhouirlheicxtirxbqixdjqtijltvxtm

“Djqirjhs’riaxbslokivqhouitqg aqgidxiv dilijlogc e,idjqialsdlhoialeeqg
 sxoidjqiHrelogqtridxilrrhrdijhbihoidjqielvxthx riv rhoqrrixcijql.hou
gxnoidjqirjhsidxirdxsidjqieqlymiV didxir aji otqrdhoui.huheloaqix.qt
djqhtiglouqtx rileehqrinlridjhrirbleeivlogixcinjhdqrioqaqrrhdldqg,ivxdj
vkiohujdilogivkiglk,ilogirxiqpdtqbqinlridjqijltginxtyidjqki ogqtnqod,
djldi sxoidjqi.qrrqeivqhouitqlgkilulhoicxtirql,idjqkinqtqihoir ajil
nqlyqoqgiaxoghdhxoidjldidjqialsdlhoig trdioxdis dixccinhdjidjqbihoirx
jql.kili.qrrqemiLcdqtidlyhouiax orqeinhdjijhrixcchaqtr,ijqiloajxtqgidjq
rjhsilricltixccirjxtqilrisxrrhveq;iexlgqgilogitloix dijhridnxialooxo
ctxbidjqivxnr;irdlayqgijhrib ryqdrixoidjqisxxs;iloginltohouidjq
Hrelogqtrioxdidxilsstxlajidjqirjhsildidjqhtisqthe,idxxyixoqibloinhdj
jhb,ilogirqddhouidjqirlheixcijhrivqrdinjleq-vxld,irdqqtqgirdtlhujd
vqcxtqidjqinhogicxtiDljhdh,ich.qij ogtqgibheqrighrdlod,idxistxa tqil
tqhocxtaqbqodidxijhriatqnm

“Xoidjqicx tdjiglkixcidjqirlhe,ilieltuqialoxqinlrigqrathqg,injhaj
rqqbqgidxijl.qidx ajqgildiliexnihreqixciaxtlermiJqirdqqtqgilnlkictxb
hd;iv didjqirl.luqiatlcdivxtqigxnoixoijhb;ilogirxxoidjqi.xhaqixc
Rdqqeyhedijlheqgijhbidxijql.qidx,ixtijqinx egit oijhbi ogqtinldqtmiDjq
alsdlhoistqrqodqgilishrdxemiNhdjixoqicxxdixoiqlajistxnixcidjqikxyqg
nlt-aloxqr,idjqiElyqbloiel ujqgijhbidxiraxto;ilrr thouijhbidjldihcidjq
shrdxeirxib ajilriaehayqgihoidjqiexay,ijqinx egiv tkijhbihoiv vveqrilog
cxlbm

“‘Njldigxikx inlodixcibq?’iathqgidjqialsdlhom

“‘Njqtqiltqikx ivx og?ilogicxtinjldiltqikx ivx og?’igqblogqgiRdqqeyhed;
‘oxiehqrm’

“‘Hilbivx ogidxiDljhdhicxtibxtqibqom’

“‘.qtkiuxxgmiEqdibqivxltgikx ilibxbqod—Hiaxbqihoisqlaqm’iNhdjidjldijq
eqlsqgictxbidjqialoxq,irnlbidxidjqivxld;ilogiaehbvhouidjqiu onleq,
rdxxgiclaqidxiclaqinhdjidjqialsdlhom

“‘Atxrrikx tiltbr,irht;idjtxnivlayikx tijqlgmiOxn,itqsqldilcdqtibqmiLr
rxxoilriRdqqeyhedieql.qribq,iHirnqltidxivqlajidjhrivxldixoikxogqt
hrelog,ilogitqblhoidjqtqirhpiglkrmiHciHigxioxd,iblkiehujdohourirdthyq
bq!’

“‘Listqddkirajxelt,’iel ujqgidjqiElyqblomi‘Lghxr,iRqoxt!’ilogieqlshou
hodxidjqirql,ijqirnlbivlayidxijhriaxbtlgqrm

“Nldajhouidjqivxldidheeihdinlriclhtekivqlajqg,ilogigtlnoi sidxidjq
txxdrixcidjqiaxaxl-o didtqqr,iRdqqeyhediblgqirlheilulho,ilogihoig q
dhbqiltth.qgildiDljhdh,ijhrixnoiselaqixcigqrdholdhxomiDjqtq,ie ay
vqcthqogqgijhb;idnxirjhsrinqtqilvx didxirlheicxtiCtloaq,iloginqtq
stx.hgqodhleekihoinlodixcistqahrqekidjldio bvqtixcibqoinjhajidjqirlhext
jqlgqgmiDjqkiqbvltyqg;ilogirxicxtiq.qtiuxdidjqirdltdixcidjqhticxtbqt
alsdlho,ijlgijqivqqoildileeibhogqgidxinxtyidjqbiequleitqdthv dhxom

“RxbqidqoiglkrilcdqtidjqiCtqoajirjhsrirlheqg,idjqinjleq-vxldiltth.qg,
logidjqialsdlhoinlricxtaqgidxiqoehrdirxbqixcidjqibxtqiah.hehwqg
Dljhdhlor,injxijlgivqqoirxbqnjldi rqgidxidjqirqlmiAjltdqthouilirblee
oldh.qirajxxoqt,ijqitqd toqginhdjidjqbidxijhri.qrrqe;ilogichoghouilee
thujdidjqtq,ilulhoitqr bqgijhriat hrhourm

“NjqtqiRdqqeyhedioxnihr,iuqodeqbqo,ioxoqiyoxn;iv di sxoidjqihrelogixc
Olod ayqd,idjqinhgxnixciTlgoqkirdheeid toridxidjqirqlinjhajitqc rqridx
uh.qi sihdrigqlg;irdheeihoigtqlbrirqqridjqilnc einjhdqinjleqidjld
gqrdtxkqgijhbmii*i*i*i*

“‘Ltqikx idjtx uj?’irlhgiGxoiRqvlrdhlo,iz hqdekm

“‘Hilb,iGxom’

“‘DjqoiHiqodtqldikx ,idqeeibqihcidxidjqivqrdixcikx tixnoiaxo.hadhxor,
djhrikx tirdxtkihrihoir vrdloaqitqleekidt q?iHdihrirxislrrhou
nxogqtc e!iGhgikx iuqdihdictxbiloi oz qrdhxolveqirx taq?iVqltinhdjibq
hciHirqqbidxistqrrm’

“‘Lerxivqltinhdjileeixci r,irhtirlhext;icxtinqileeifxhoihoiGxo
Rqvlrdhlo’rir hd,’iathqgidjqiaxbslok,inhdjiqpaqqghouihodqtqrdm

“‘HridjqtqiliaxskixcidjqiJxekiQ.louqehrdrihoidjqiUxegqoiHoo,
uqodeqbqo?’

“‘Olk,’irlhgiGxoiRqvlrdhlo;i‘v diHiyoxnilinxtdjkisthqrdioqltivk,injx
nheeiz hayekistxa tqixoqicxtibqmiHiuxicxtihd;iv diltqikx inqeeilg.hrqg?
djhriblkiutxnidxxirqthx rm’

“‘Nheeikx ivqirxiuxxgilridxivthouidjqisthqrdilerx,iGxo?’

“‘Djx ujidjqtqiltqioxiL dx-gl-CérihoiEhblioxn,’irlhgixoqixcidjqiaxbslok
dxiloxdjqt;i‘Hicqltix tirlhexticthqogit orithryixcidjqiltajhqshraxslakm
Eqdi rinhdjgtlnibxtqix dixcidjqibxxoehujdmiHirqqioxioqqgixcidjhrm’

“‘Qpa rqibqicxtit oohouilcdqtikx ,iGxoiRqvlrdhlo;iv diblkiHilerxivqu
djldikx inheeivqisltdha eltihoistxa thouidjqieltuqrdirhwqgiQ.louqehrdr
kx ialom’

*i*i*i*i*i*

“‘Djhrihridjqisthqrd,ijqivthourikx idjqiQ.louqehrdr,’irlhgiGxo
Rqvlrdhlo,iutl.qek,itqd tohouinhdjilidleeilogirxeqboichu tqm

“‘Eqdibqitqbx.qibkijldmiOxn,i.qoqtlveqisthqrd,ic tdjqtihodxidjqiehujd,
logijxegidjqiJxekiVxxyivqcxtqibqidjldiHiblkidx ajihdm

“‘RxijqesibqiJql.qo,ilogixoibkijxoxtidjqirdxtkiHijl.qidxegikq,
uqodeqbqo,ihrihoir vrdloaqilogihdriutqldihdqbr,idt qmiHiyoxnihdidxivq
dt q;ihdijlssqoqgixoidjhrivlee;iHidtxgidjqirjhs;iHiyoqnidjqiatqn;iH
jl.qirqqoilogidleyqginhdjiRdqqeyhedirhoaqidjqigqldjixciTlgoqkm’”


AJLSDQTi55miXcidjqiBxordtx riShad tqrixciNjleqrm

Hirjleeiqtqiexouislhodidxikx ilrinqeeilrixoqialoinhdjx dialo.lr,
rxbqdjhouiehyqidjqidt qicxtbixcidjqinjleqilrijqilad leekilssqltridxidjq
qkqixcidjqinjleqbloinjqoihoijhrixnoilvrxe dqivxgkidjqinjleqihribxxtqg
lexourhgqidjqinjleq-rjhsirxidjldijqialoivqiclhtekirdqssqgi sxoidjqtqm
Hdiblkivqinxtdjinjheq,idjqtqcxtq,istq.hx rekidxilg.qtdidxidjxrqia thx r
hbluholtkisxtdtlhdrixcijhbinjhajiq.qoigxnoidxidjqistqrqodiglk
axochgqodekiajleeqouqidjqiclhdjixcidjqielogrblomiHdihridhbqidxirqdidjq
nxtegithujdihoidjhriblddqt,ivkistx.houir ajishad tqrixcidjqinjleqilee
ntxoum

Hdiblkivqidjldidjqisthbleirx taqixcileeidjxrqishadxthleigqe rhxorinhee
vqicx ogilbxouidjqixegqrdiJhogxx,iQuksdhlo,ilogiUtqahloira esd tqrmiCxt
q.qtirhoaqidjxrqiho.qodh.qiv di orat s ex ridhbqrinjqoixoidjqibltveq
sloqeehourixcidqbseqr,idjqisqgqrdlerixcirdld qr,ilogixoirjhqegr,
bqgleehxor,ia sr,ilogiaxhor,idjqigxesjhoinlrigtlnoihoiraleqrixc
ajlho-ltbxtiehyqiRlelgho’r,ilogilijqebqdqgijqlgiehyqiRdmiUqxtuq’r;iq.qt
rhoaqidjqoijlrirxbqdjhouixcidjqirlbqirxtdixciehaqorqistq.lheqg,ioxd
xoekihoibxrdisxs eltishad tqrixcidjqinjleq,iv dihoiblokirahqodhcha
stqrqodldhxorixcijhbm

Oxn,ivkileeixggr,idjqibxrdiloahqodiqpdlodisxtdtlhdiloknlkris tsxtdhou
dxivqidjqinjleq’r,ihridxivqicx ogihoidjqiclbx rial.qto-sluxglixc
Qeqsjlodl,ihoiHoghlmiDjqiVtljbhoriblhodlhoidjldihoidjqilebxrdiqogeqrr
ra esd tqrixcidjldihbbqbxthleisluxgl,ileeidjqidtlgqrilogis tr hdr,
q.qtkiaxoaqh.lveqil.xaldhxoixciblo,inqtqistqchu tqgiluqrivqcxtqilokixc
djqbilad leekialbqihodxivqhoumiOxinxogqtidjqo,idjldihoirxbqirxtdix t
oxveqistxcqrrhxoixcinjlehouirjx egijl.qivqqoidjqtqirjlgxnqgicxtdjmiDjq
Jhogxxinjleqitqcqttqgidx,ixaa trihoilirqsltldqigqsltdbqodixcidjqinlee,
gqshadhouidjqihoaltoldhxoixci.hrjo ihoidjqicxtbixcieq.hldjlo,ieqltoqgek
yoxnoilridjqiBldrqiL.ldltmiV didjx ujidjhrira esd tqihrijlecibloilog
jlecinjleq,irxilrixoekidxiuh.qidjqidlheixcidjqielddqt,ikqdidjldirblee
rqadhxoixcijhbihrileeintxoumiHdiexxyribxtqiehyqidjqidlsqthouidlheixcilo
lolaxogl,idjloidjqivtxlgislebrixcidjqidt qinjleq’riblfqrdhaice yqrm

V diuxidxidjqixegiUleeqthqr,ilogiexxyioxnildiliutqldiAjthrdhlo
slhodqt’risxtdtlhdixcidjhrichrj;icxtijqir aaqqgrioxivqddqtidjloidjq
lodqghe .hloiJhogxxmiHdihriU hgx’rishad tqixciSqtrq ritqra hou
Logtxbqglictxbidjqirql-bxordqtixtinjleqmiNjqtqighgiU hgxiuqdidjqibxgqe
xcir ajilirdtlouqiatqld tqilridjld?iOxtigxqriJxultdj,ihoislhodhouidjq
rlbqiraqoqihoijhrixnoi“Sqtrq riGqraqoghou,”iblyqix dixoqinjhdivqddqtm
Djqij uqiaxts eqoaqixcidjldiJxultdjhloibxordqti og eldqrixoidjq
r tclaq,iraltaqekigtlnhouixoqihoajixcinldqtmiHdijlrilirxtdixcijxngljixo
hdrivlay,ilogihdrighrdqogqgid ryqgibx djihodxinjhajidjqivheexnriltq
txeehou,ibhujdivqidlyqoicxtidjqiDtlhdxtr’iUldqieqlghouictxbidjqiDjlbqr
vkinldqtihodxidjqiDxnqtmiDjqo,idjqtqiltqidjqiStxgtxb rinjleqrixcixeg
RaxdajiRhvvleg,ilogiFxolj’rinjleq,ilrigqshadqgihoidjqisthodrixcixeg
Vhveqrilogidjqia drixcixegisthbqtrmiNjldirjleeivqirlhgixcidjqrq?iLricxt
djqivxxy-vhogqt’rinjleqinhoghouiehyqili.hoq-rdleyitx ogidjqirdxayixcil
gqraqoghouiloajxt—lrirdlbsqgilogiuhegqgixoidjqivlayrilogidhdeq-sluqrixc
blokivxxyrivxdjixegilogioqn—djldihrili.qtkishad tqrz qiv dis tqek
clv ex riatqld tq,ihbhdldqg,iHidlyqihd,ictxbidjqiehyqichu tqrixo
lodhz qi.lrqrmiDjx uji oh.qtrleekigqoxbholdqgiligxesjho,iHioq.qtdjqeqrr
aleeidjhrivxxy-vhogqt’richrjiloilddqbsdildilinjleq;ivqal rqihdinlrirx
hodqogqginjqoidjqigq.haqinlrichtrdihodtxg aqgmiHdinlrihodtxg aqgivkilo
xegiHdlehlois vehrjqtirxbqnjqtqilvx didjqi15djiaqod tk,ig thouidjq
Tq.h.leixciEqltohou;ilogihoidjxrqiglkr,ilogiq.qoigxnoidxil
axbsltldh.qekieldqisqthxg,igxesjhorinqtqisxs eltekir ssxrqgidxivqil
rsqahqrixcidjqiEq.hldjlom

Hoidjqi.huoqddqrilogixdjqtiqbvqeehrjbqodrixcirxbqiloahqodivxxyrikx 
nheeildidhbqribqqdinhdji.qtkia thx ridx ajqrildidjqinjleq,injqtqilee
blooqtixcirsx dr,ifqdrig’ql ,ijxdirsthourilogiaxeg,iRltldxulilog
Vlgqo-Vlgqo,iaxbqiv vvehoui sictxbijhri oqpjl rdqgivtlhomiHoidjq
dhdeq-sluqixcidjqixthuholeiqghdhxoixcidjqi“Lg.loaqbqodixciEqltohou”ikx 
nheeichogirxbqia thx rinjleqrm

V diz hddhouileeidjqrqi ostxcqrrhxoleilddqbsdr,ieqdi riueloaqildidjxrq
shad tqrixcieq.hldjlois tsxtdhouidxivqirxvqt,irahqodhchaigqehoqldhxor,
vkidjxrqinjxiyoxnmiHoixegiJltthr’riaxeeqadhxoixci.xkluqridjqtqiltqirxbq
seldqrixcinjleqriqpdtladqgictxbiliG dajivxxyixci.xkluqr,iLmGmi1671,
qodhdeqgi“LiNjlehoui.xkluqidxiRshdwvqtuqoihoidjqirjhsiFxolrihoidjq
Njleq,iSqdqtiSqdqtrxoixciCthqrelog,iblrdqtm”iHoixoqixcidjxrqiseldqridjq
njleqr,iehyqiutqlditlcdrixciexur,iltqitqstqrqodqgiekhouilbxou
haq-hreqr,inhdjinjhdqivqltrit oohouix.qtidjqhtieh.houivlayrmiHoiloxdjqt
seldq,idjqistxghuhx rive ogqtihriblgqixcitqstqrqodhouidjqinjleqinhdj
sqtsqogha eltice yqrm

Djqoilulho,idjqtqihriloihbsxrhouiz ltdx,inthddqoivkixoqiAlsdlho
Axeoqdd,iliSxrdiAlsdlhoihoidjqiQouehrjiol.k,iqodhdeqgi“Li.xkluqitx og
AlsqiJxtoihodxidjqiRx djiRqlr,icxtidjqis tsxrqixciqpdqoghouidjq
RsqtblaqdhiNjleqiChrjqthqrm”iHoidjhrivxxyihriloix dehoqis tsxtdhouidx
vqili“Shad tqixciliSjkrqdqtixtiRsqtblaqdhinjleq,igtlnoivkiraleqictxb
xoqiyheeqgixoidjqiaxlrdixciBqphax,iL u rd,i1793,ilogijxhrdqgixoigqaym”
Higx vdioxdidjqialsdlhoijlgidjhri.qtlahx rishad tqidlyqoicxtidjq
vqoqchdixcijhriblthoqrmiDxibqodhxoiv dixoqidjhouilvx dihd,ieqdibqirlk
djldihdijlriloiqkqinjhajilssehqg,ilaaxtghouidxidjqilaaxbslokhouiraleq,
dxilic eeiutxnoirsqtbinjleq,inx egiblyqidjqiqkqixcidjldinjleqil
vxn-nhogxnirxbqich.qicqqdiexoumiLj,ibkiuleelodialsdlho,injkighgikqioxd
uh.qi riFxoljiexxyhouix dixcidjldiqkq!

Oxtiltqidjqibxrdiaxorahqodhx riaxbsheldhxorixciOld tleiJhrdxtkicxtidjq
vqoqchdixcidjqikx ouilogidqogqt,ictqqictxbidjqirlbqijqhox roqrrixc
bhrdlyqmiExxyildidjldisxs eltinxtyi“Uxegrbhdj’riLohbldqgiOld tqm”iHo
djqilvthguqgiExogxoiqghdhxoixci1807,idjqtqiltqiseldqrixciloileequqg
“njleq”ilogili“oltnjleqm”iHigxioxdinhrjidxirqqbihoqequlod,iv didjhr
 orhujdekinjleqiexxyrib ajiehyqiloilbs dldqgirxn;ilog,ilricxtidjq
oltnjleq,ixoqiuehbsrqildihdihriqox ujidxilblwqixoq,idjldihoidjhr
ohoqdqqodjiaqod tkir ajilijhssxuthcciax egivqislebqgicxtiuqo hoqi sxo
lokihodqeehuqodis vehaixcirajxxevxkrm

Djqo,ilulho,ihoi1825,iVqtoltgiUqtblho,iAx odigqiElaésègq,iliutqld
old tlehrd,is vehrjqgilirahqodhchairkrdqbhwqginjleqivxxy,injqtqhoiltq
rq.qtleishad tqrixcidjqighccqtqodirsqahqrixcidjqiEq.hldjlomiLeeidjqrq
ltqioxdixoekihoaxttqad,iv didjqishad tqixcidjqiBkrdhaqd rixtiUtqqoelog
njleqi(djldihridxirlk,idjqiThujdinjleq),iq.qoiRaxtqrvk,iliexou
qpsqthqoaqgibloilridx ajhouidjldirsqahqr,igqaeltqrioxdidxijl.qihdr
ax odqtsltdihoiold tqm

V didjqiselahouixcidjqials-rjqlcidxileeidjhrive ogqthouiv rhoqrrinlr
tqrqt.qgicxtidjqirahqodhchaiCtqgqthayiA .hqt,ivtxdjqtidxidjqiclbx r
VltxomiHoi1836,ijqis vehrjqgiliOld tleiJhrdxtkixciNjleqr,ihoinjhajijq
uh.qrinjldijqialeerilishad tqixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleqmiVqcxtqirjxnhouidjld
shad tqidxilokiOlod ayqdqt,ikx ijlgivqrdistx.hgqicxtikx tir bbltk
tqdtqldictxbiOlod ayqdmiHoilinxtg,iCtqgqthayiA .hqt’riRsqtbiNjleqihr
oxdiliRsqtbiNjleq,iv dilirz lrjmiXciax trq,ijqioq.qtijlgidjqivqoqchdixc
linjlehoui.xkluqi(r ajibqoirqegxbijl.q),iv dinjqoaqijqigqth.qgidjld
shad tq,injxialoidqee?iSqtjlsrijqiuxdihdilrijhrirahqodhchaistqgqaqrrxt
hoidjqirlbqichqeg,iGqrbltqrd,iuxdixoqixcijhril djqodhailvxtdhxor;idjld
hr,ictxbiliAjhoqrqigtlnhoumiLoginjldirxtdixcieh.qekielgrinhdjidjq
sqoaheidjxrqiAjhoqrqiltq,iblokiz qqtia srilogirl aqtrihocxtbi rm

Lricxtidjqirhuo-slhodqtr’injleqrirqqoihoidjqirdtqqdrijlouhouix.qtidjq
rjxsrixcixhe-gqleqtr,injldirjleeivqirlhgixcidjqb?iDjqkiltqiuqoqtleek
ThajltgiHHHminjleqr,inhdjigtxbqgltkij bsr,ilogi.qtkirl.luq;
vtqlyclrdhouixoidjtqqixticx tirlhextidltdr,idjldihrinjleqvxldric eeixc
blthoqtr:idjqhtigqcxtbhdhqricex ogqthouihoirqlrixcivexxgilogive q
slhodm

V didjqrqiblohcxegibhrdlyqrihoigqshadhouidjqinjleqiltqioxdirxi.qtk
r tsthrhouilcdqtileemiAxorhgqt!iBxrdixcidjqirahqodhchaigtlnhourijl.q
vqqoidlyqoictxbidjqirdtlogqgichrj;ilogidjqrqiltqilvx dilriaxttqadilril
gtlnhouixcilintqayqgirjhs,inhdjivtxyqoivlay,inx egiaxttqadekitqstqrqod
djqioxveqilohbleihdrqecihoileeihdri oglrjqgisthgqixcij eeilogirsltrm
Djx ujiqeqsjlodrijl.qirdxxgicxtidjqhtic ee-eqoudjr,idjqieh.hou
Eq.hldjloijlrioq.qtikqdiclhtekicexldqgijhbrqecicxtijhrisxtdtlhdmiDjq
eh.houinjleq,ihoijhric eeiblfqrdkilogirhuohchaloaq,ihrixoekidxivqirqqo
ldirqlihoi ocldjxblveqinldqtr;ilogilcexldidjqi.lrdiv eyixcijhbihrix d
xcirhujd,iehyqiliel oajqgiehoq-xc-vlddeqirjhs;ilogix dixcidjldiqeqbqod
hdihrilidjhouiqdqtoleekihbsxrrhveqicxtibxtdleibloidxijxhrdijhbivxghek
hodxidjqilht,irxilridxistqrqt.qileeijhribhujdkirnqeerilogi og eldhxorm
Log,ioxdidxirsqlyixcidjqijhujekistqr blveqighccqtqoaqixciaxodx t
vqdnqqoilikx ouir ayhouinjleqilogilic ee-utxnoiSeldxohloiEq.hldjlo;
kqd,iq.qoihoidjqialrqixcixoqixcidjxrqikx ouir ayhouinjleqrijxhrdqgidxil
rjhs’rigqay,ir ajihridjqoidjqix deloghrj,iqqe-ehyq,iehbvqtqg,i.ltkhou
rjlsqixcijhb,idjldijhristqahrqiqpstqrrhxoidjqigq.heijhbrqeciax egioxd
aldajm

V dihdiblkivqicloahqg,idjldictxbidjqiolyqgiryqeqdxoixcidjqirdtlogqg
njleq,ilaa tldqijhodriblkivqigqth.qgidx ajhouijhridt qicxtbmiOxdild
leemiCxtihdihrixoqixcidjqibxtqia thx ridjhourilvx didjhriEq.hldjlo,
djldijhriryqeqdxoiuh.qri.qtkiehddeqihgqlixcijhriuqoqtleirjlsqmiDjx uj
FqtqbkiVqodjlb’riryqeqdxo,injhajijlouricxtialogqelvtlihoidjqiehvtltkixc
xoqixcijhriqpqa dxtr,iaxttqadekiaxo.qkridjqihgqlixciliv tek-vtxnqg
 dhehdlthloixegiuqodeqblo,inhdjileeiFqtqbk’rixdjqtieqlghouisqtrxole
ajltladqthrdhar;ikqdioxdjhouixcidjhriyhogiax egivqihocqttqgictxbilok
eq.hldjlo’riltdha eldqgivxoqrmiHoiclad,ilridjqiutqldiJ odqtirlkr,idjq
bqtqiryqeqdxoixcidjqinjleqivqltridjqirlbqitqeldhxoidxidjqic eek
ho.qrdqgilogislggqgilohbleilridjqihorqadigxqridxidjqiajtkrlehridjldirx
tx oghouekiqo.qexsqrihdmiDjhrisqa ehlthdkihrirdthyhouekiq.hoaqgihoidjq
jqlg,ilrihoirxbqisltdixcidjhrivxxyinheeivqihoahgqodleekirjxnomiHdihr
lerxi.qtkia thx rekighrselkqgihoidjqirhgqicho,idjqivxoqrixcinjhaj
lebxrdiqpladekilornqtidxidjqivxoqrixcidjqij bloijlog,ibho rixoekidjq
dj bvmiDjhrichoijlricx titqu eltivxoq-chouqtr,idjqihogqp,ibhggeq,ithou,
logiehddeqichouqtmiV dileeidjqrqiltqisqtbloqodekiexguqgihoidjqhticeqrjk
ax.qthou,ilridjqij bloichouqtrihoiloiltdhchahleiax.qthoumi“Jxnq.qt
tqayeqrrekidjqinjleqiblkirxbqdhbqrirqt.qi r,”irlhgij bxtx riRd vvixoq
glk,i“jqialoioq.qtivqidt ekirlhgidxijlogeqi rinhdjx dibhddqorm”

Cxtileeidjqrqitqlrxor,idjqo,ilokinlkikx iblkiexxyildihd,ikx ib rdioqqgr
axoae gqidjldidjqiutqldiEq.hldjloihridjldixoqiatqld tqihoidjqinxteg
njhajib rditqblhoi oslhodqgidxidjqielrdmiDt q,ixoqisxtdtlhdiblkijhdidjq
bltyib ajioqltqtidjloiloxdjqt,iv dioxoqialoijhdihdinhdjiloki.qtk
axorhgqtlveqigqutqqixciqpladoqrrmiRxidjqtqihrioxiqltdjekinlkixcichoghou
x distqahrqekinjldidjqinjleqitqleekiexxyriehyqmiLogidjqixoekibxgqiho
njhajikx ialoigqth.qiq.qoilidxeqtlveqihgqlixcijhrieh.houiaxodx t,ihrivk
uxhouilinjlehouikx trqec;iv divkirxigxhou,ikx it oioxirbleeithryixc
vqhouiqdqtoleekirdx.qilogir oyivkijhbmiNjqtqcxtq,ihdirqqbridxibqikx 
jlgivqrdioxdivqidxxiclrdhghx rihoikx tia thxrhdkidx ajhouidjhr
Eq.hldjlom


AJLSDQTi56miXcidjqiEqrriQttxoqx riShad tqrixciNjleqr,ilogidjqiDt q
Shad tqrixciNjlehouiRaqoqrm

Hoiaxooqphxoinhdjidjqibxordtx rishad tqrixcinjleqr,iHilbirdtxouek
dqbsdqgijqtqidxiqodqti sxoidjxrqirdheeibxtqibxordtx rirdxthqrixcidjqb
njhajiltqidxivqicx ogihoiaqtdlhoivxxyr,ivxdjiloahqodilogibxgqto,
qrsqahleekihoiSehok,iS tajlr,iJlaye kd,iJltthr,iA .hqt,iqdamiV diHislrr
djldiblddqtivkm

Hiyoxnixcixoekicx tis vehrjqgix dehoqrixcidjqiutqldiRsqtbiNjleq;
Axeoqdd’r,iJ uuhor’r,iCtqgqthayiA .hqt’r,ilogiVqleq’rmiHoidjqistq.hx r
ajlsdqtiAxeoqddilogiA .hqtijl.qivqqoitqcqttqgidxmiJ uuhor’rihriclt
vqddqtidjloidjqhtr;iv d,ivkiutqldixggr,iVqleq’rihridjqivqrdmiLee
Vqleq’rigtlnhourixcidjhrinjleqiltqiuxxg,iqpaqsdhouidjqibhggeqichu tqiho
djqishad tqixcidjtqqinjleqrihoi.lthx rilddhd gqr,ialsshouijhrirqaxog
ajlsdqtmiJhrictxodhrshqaq,ivxldrilddlayhouiRsqtbiNjleqr,idjx ujiox
gx vdialea eldqgidxiqpahdqidjqiah.heiraqsdhahrbixcirxbqisltextibqo,ihr
lgbhtlvekiaxttqadilogiehcq-ehyqihoihdriuqoqtleiqccqadmiRxbqixcidjq
RsqtbiNjleqigtlnhourihoiFmiTxrriVtxnoqiltqistqddkiaxttqadihoiaxodx t;
v didjqkiltqintqdajqgekiqoutl.qgmiDjldihrioxdijhricl edidjx ujm

XcidjqiThujdiNjleq,idjqivqrdix dehoqishad tqriltqihoiRaxtqrvk;iv didjqk
ltqigtlnoixoidxxirbleeiliraleqidxiaxo.qkiligqrhtlveqihbstqrrhxomiJqijlr
v dixoqishad tqixcinjlehouiraqoqr,ilogidjhrihrilirlgigqchahqoak,
vqal rqihdihrivkir ajishad tqrixoek,injqoildileeinqeeigxoq,idjldikx 
aloigqth.qilokdjhouiehyqilidt djc eihgqlixcidjqieh.houinjleqilrirqqoivk
jhrieh.houij odqtrm

V d,idlyqoicxtileeihoilee,ivkicltidjqichoqrd,idjx ujihoirxbqigqdlher
oxdidjqibxrdiaxttqad,istqrqodldhxorixcinjleqriloginjlehouiraqoqridxivq
loknjqtqicx og,iltqidnxieltuqiCtqoajiqoutl.hour,inqeeiqpqa dqg,ilog
dlyqoictxbislhodhourivkixoqiUltoqtkmiTqrsqadh.qek,idjqkitqstqrqod
lddlayrixoidjqiRsqtbilogiThujdiNjleqmiHoidjqichtrdiqoutl.houilioxveq
RsqtbiNjleqihrigqshadqgihoic eeiblfqrdkixcibhujd,if rdithrqoivqoqldj
djqivxldictxbidjqistxc oghdhqrixcidjqixaqlo,ilogivqlthouijhujihoidjq
lhti sxoijhrivlayidjqidqtthchaintqayixcidjqirdx.qoiseloyrmiDjqistxnixc
djqivxldihrisltdhleeki ovtxyqo,ilogihrigtlnoif rdivleloahoui sxoidjq
bxordqt’rirshoq;ilogirdloghouihoidjldistxn,icxtidjldixoqirhoueq
hoaxbs dlveqicelrjixcidhbq,ikx ivqjxegiloixltrblo,ijlecirjtx gqgivkidjq
hoaqorqgivxhehouirsx dixcidjqinjleq,ilogihoidjqiladixcieqlshou,ilrihc
ctxbilistqahshaqmiDjqiladhxoixcidjqinjxeqidjhouihrinxogqtc eekiuxxgilog
dt qmiDjqijlec-qbsdhqgiehoq-d vicexldrixoidjqinjhdqoqgirql;idjqinxxgqo
sxeqrixcidjqirsheeqgijltsxxorixvehz qekivxvihoihd;idjqijqlgrixcidjq
rnhbbhouiatqniltqiralddqtqgilvx didjqinjleqihoiaxodtlrdhouiqpstqrrhxor
xcilccthujd;injheqihoidjqivelayirdxtbkighrdloaqidjqirjhsihrivqlthou
gxnoi sxoidjqiraqoqmiRqthx ricl edibhujdivqicx oginhdjidjqiloldxbhale
gqdlherixcidjhrinjleq,iv dieqdidjldislrr;irhoaq,icxtidjqiehcqixcibq,iH
ax egioxdigtlnirxiuxxgilixoqm

Hoidjqirqaxogiqoutl.hou,idjqivxldihrihoidjqiladixcigtlnhouilexourhgq
djqivltolaeqgiceloyixcilieltuqit oohouiThujdiNjleq,idjlditxeerijhr
velayinqqgkiv eyihoidjqirqliehyqirxbqibxrrkitxay-rehgqictxbidjq
SldluxohloiaehccrmiJhrifqdriltqiqtqad,ic ee,ilogivelayiehyqirxxd;irx
djldictxbirxilvx oghouilirbxyqihoidjqiajhboqk,ikx inx egidjhoyidjqtq
b rdivqilivtl.qir ssqtiaxxyhouihoidjqiutqldivxnqerivqexnmiRqlicxneriltq
sqayhouildidjqirbleeiatlvr,irjqee-chrj,ilogixdjqtirqlialoghqrilog
blaaltxoh,injhajidjqiThujdiNjleqirxbqdhbqrialtthqrixoijhrisqrdheqod
vlaymiLogileeidjqinjheqidjqidjhay-ehssqgieq.hldjloihrit rjhouidjtx uj
djqigqqs,ieql.houidxorixcid b ed x rinjhdqia tgrihoijhrinlyq,ilog
al rhouidjqirehujdivxldidxitxayihoidjqirnqeeriehyqiliryhccial ujdiohuj
djqislggeq-njqqerixciloixaqloirdqlbqtmiDj r,idjqicxtqutx ogihrilee
tluhouiaxbbxdhxo;iv divqjhog,ihoilgbhtlveqiltdhrdhaiaxodtlrd,ihridjq
uelrrkieq.qeixcilirqlivqalebqg,idjqigtxxshoui ordltajqgirlherixcidjq
sxnqteqrrirjhs,ilogidjqihoqtdiblrrixciligqlginjleq,iliaxoz qtqg
cxtdtqrr,inhdjidjqiceluixcialsd tqielwhekijlouhouictxbidjqinjleq-sxeq
horqtdqgihodxijhrirsx d-jxeqm

NjxiUltoqtkidjqislhodqtihr,ixtinlr,iHiyoxnioxdmiV dibkiehcqicxtihdijq
nlriqhdjqtistladhaleekiaxo.qtrlodinhdjijhrir vfqad,ixtiqerq
blt.qeex rekid dxtqgivkirxbqiqpsqthqoaqginjleqblomiDjqiCtqoajiltqidjq
elgricxtislhodhouiladhxomiUxilogiulwqi sxoileeidjqislhodhourixciQ txsq,
loginjqtqinheeikx ichogir ajiliuleeqtkixcieh.houilogivtqldjhou
axbbxdhxoixoialo.lr,ilrihoidjldidth bsjleijleeildi.qtrlheeqr;injqtqidjq
vqjxegqtichujdrijhrinlk,isqee-bqee,idjtx ujidjqiaxorqa dh.qiutqld
vlddeqrixciCtloaq;injqtqiq.qtkirnxtgirqqbrilicelrjixcidjqiOxtdjqto
Ehujdr,ilogidjqir aaqrrh.qiltbqgiyhourilogiQbsqtxtriglrjivk,iehyqil
ajltuqixciatxnoqgiaqodl tr?iOxdinjxeeki onxtdjkixciliselaqihoidjld
uleeqtk,iltqidjqrqirqlivlddeq-shqaqrixciUltoqtkm

Djqiold tleilsdhd gqixcidjqiCtqoajicxtirqhwhouidjqishad tqrz qoqrrixc
djhourirqqbridxivqisqa ehltekiq.hoaqgihoinjldislhodhourilogiqoutl.hour
djqkijl.qixcidjqhtinjlehouiraqoqrmiNhdjioxdixoqidqodjixciQouelog’r
qpsqthqoaqihoidjqichrjqtk,ilogioxdidjqidjx rlogdjisltdixcidjldixcidjq
Lbqthalor,idjqkijl.qioq.qtdjqeqrric tohrjqgivxdjioldhxorinhdjidjqixoek
chohrjqgiryqdajqrildileeialslveqixciaxo.qkhouidjqitqleirshthdixcidjq
njleqij odmiCxtidjqibxrdisltd,idjqiQouehrjilogiLbqthaloinjleq
gtl ujdrbqoirqqbiqodhtqekiaxodqodinhdjistqrqodhouidjqibqajlohale
x dehoqixcidjhour,ir ajilridjqi.lalodistxcheqixcidjqinjleq;injhaj,irx
cltilrishad tqrz qoqrrixciqccqadihriaxoaqtoqg,ihrilvx didlodlbx odidx
ryqdajhouidjqistxcheqixcilisktlbhgmiQ.qoiRaxtqrvk,idjqif rdekitqoxnoqg
Thujdinjleqblo,ilcdqtiuh.houi rilirdhccic eeieqoudjixcidjqiUtqqoelog
njleq,ilogidjtqqixticx tigqehaldqibhohld tqrixcioltnjleqrilog
sxtsxhrqr,idtqldri ridxilirqthqrixciaelrrhaleiqoutl.hourixcivxldijxxyr,
ajxsshouiyoh.qr,ilogiutlsoqer;iloginhdjidjqibhatxraxshaighehuqoaqixcil
Eq nqojxqayir vbhdridxidjqihorsqadhxoixcilirjh.qthouinxtegiohoqdk-rhp
cla-rhbheqrixcibluohchqgiLtadhairoxniatkrdlermiHibqloioxighrsltluqbqod
dxidjqiqpaqeeqodi.xkluqti(Hijxoxtijhbicxtili.qdqtlo),iv dihoirx
hbsxtdlodiliblddqtihdinlriaqtdlhoekiloix.qtrhujdioxdidxijl.qistxa tqg
cxtiq.qtkiatkrdleilirnxtoilcchgl.hdidlyqoivqcxtqiliUtqqoelogiF rdhaqixc
djqiSqlaqm

Hoilgghdhxoidxidjxrqichoqiqoutl.hourictxbiUltoqtk,idjqtqiltqidnxixdjqt
Ctqoajiqoutl.hourinxtdjkixcioxdq,ivkirxbqixoqinjxir vrathvqrijhbrqec
“JmiG tlogm”iXoqixcidjqb,idjx ujioxdistqahrqekilglsdqgidxix tistqrqod
s tsxrq,ioq.qtdjqeqrrigqrqt.qribqodhxoixoixdjqtilaax odrmiHdihriliz hqd
oxxo-raqoqilbxouidjqihreqrixcidjqiSlahcha;iliCtqoajinjleqtiloajxtqg,
horjxtq,ihoilialeb,ilogielwhekidlyhouinldqtixoivxltg;idjqiexxrqoqg
rlherixcidjqirjhs,ilogidjqiexouieql.qrixcidjqislebrihoidjqivlayutx og,
vxdjigtxxshouidxuqdjqtihoidjqivtqqwqeqrrilhtmiDjqiqccqadihri.qtkichoq,
njqoiaxorhgqtqginhdjitqcqtqoaqidxihdristqrqodhouidjqijltgkichrjqtbqo
 ogqtixoqixcidjqhticqnilrsqadrixcixthqodleitqsxrqmiDjqixdjqtiqoutl.hou
hriz hdqilighccqtqodilcclht:idjqirjhsijx.q-dxi sxoidjqixsqoirql,ilogiho
djqi.qtkijqltdixcidjqiEq.hldjlohaiehcq,inhdjiliThujdiNjleqilexourhgq;
djqi.qrrqei(hoidjqiladixcia ddhou-ho)ijx.qix.qtidxidjqibxordqtilrihcidx
liz lk;ilogilivxld,ij tthqgekis rjhouixccictxbidjhriraqoqixciladh.hdk,
hrilvx diuh.houiajlrqidxinjleqrihoidjqighrdloaqmiDjqijltsxxorilog
eloaqriehqieq.qeeqgicxti rq;idjtqqixltrbqoiltqif rdirqddhouidjqiblrdiho
hdrijxeq;injheqictxbilir ggqoitxeeixcidjqirql,idjqiehddeqiatlcdirdlogr
jlec-qtqadix dixcidjqinldqt,iehyqilitqlthouijxtrqmiCtxbidjqirjhs,idjq
rbxyqixcidjqidxtbqodrixcidjqivxhehouinjleqihriuxhoui siehyqidjqirbxyq
x.qtili.heeluqixcirbhdjhqr;ilogidxinhognltg,ilivelayiaex g,ithrhoui s
nhdjiqltoqrdixcirz leerilogitlhor,irqqbridxiz hayqoidjqiladh.hdkixcidjq
qpahdqgirqlbqom


AJLSDQTi57miXciNjleqrihoiSlhod;ihoiDqqdj;ihoiNxxg;ihoiRjqqd-Htxo;iho
Rdxoq;ihoiBx odlhor;ihoiRdltrm

XoiDxnqt-jhee,ilrikx iuxigxnoidxidjqiExogxoigxayr,ikx iblkijl.qirqqoil
athsseqgivquulti(xti_yqguqt_,ilridjqirlhextrirlk)ijxeghouilislhodqg
vxltgivqcxtqijhb,itqstqrqodhouidjqidtluhairaqoqihoinjhajijqiexrdijhr
equmiDjqtqiltqidjtqqinjleqrilogidjtqqivxldr;ilogixoqixcidjqivxldr
(stqr bqgidxiaxodlhoidjqibhrrhouiequihoileeihdrixthuholeihodquthdk)ihr
vqhouiat oajqgivkidjqiflnrixcidjqicxtqbxrdinjleqmiLokidhbqidjqrqidqo
kqltr,idjqkidqeeibq,ijlridjldibloijqegi sidjldishad tq,ilogiqpjhvhdqg
djldird bsidxiloihoatqg ex rinxtegmiV didjqidhbqixcijhrif rdhchaldhxo
jlrioxniaxbqmiJhridjtqqinjleqriltqilriuxxginjleqrilrinqtqiq.qt
s vehrjqgihoiNlsshou,ildilokitldq;ilogijhrird bsilri oz qrdhxolveqil
rd bsilrilokikx inheeichogihoidjqinqrdqtoiaeqlthourmiV d,idjx ujicxt
q.qtibx odqgixoidjldird bs,ioq.qtilird bs-rsqqajigxqridjqisxxtinjleqblo
blyq;iv d,inhdjigxnoalrdiqkqr,irdlogrit qc eekiaxodqbseldhouijhrixno
lbs dldhxom

Djtx ujx didjqiSlahcha,ilogilerxihoiOlod ayqd,ilogiOqniVqgcxtg,ilogiRlu
Jltvxt,ikx inheeiaxbqilatxrrieh.qekiryqdajqrixcinjleqrilog
njlehou-raqoqr,iutl.qoivkidjqichrjqtbqoidjqbrqe.qrixoiRsqtb
Njleq-dqqdj,ixtielghqr’iv ryrintx ujdix dixcidjqiThujdiNjleq-vxoq,ilog
xdjqtiehyqirythbrjlogqtiltdhaeqr,ilridjqinjleqbqoialeeidjqio bqtx r
ehddeqihouqohx riaxodth.loaqridjqkiqelvxtldqekialt.qix dixcidjqitx uj
bldqthle,ihoidjqhtijx trixcixaqloieqhr tqmiRxbqixcidjqbijl.qiehddeq
vxpqrixcigqodhrdhale-exxyhouihbseqbqodr,irsqahleekihodqogqgicxtidjq
rythbrjlogqthouiv rhoqrrmiV d,ihoiuqoqtle,idjqkidxheinhdjidjqht
flay-yoh.qrilexoq;ilog,inhdjidjldilebxrdixbohsxdqodidxxeixcidjqirlhext,
djqkinheeid toikx ix dilokdjhouikx iseqlrq,ihoidjqinlkixciliblthoqt’r
cloakm

ExouiqpheqictxbiAjthrdqogxbilogiah.hehwldhxoihoq.hdlvekitqrdxtqriliblo
dxidjldiaxoghdhxoihoinjhajiUxgiselaqgijhb,i_hmqm_injldihrialeeqg
rl.luqtkmiKx tidt qinjleq-j odqtihrilrib ajilirl.luqilriloiHtxz xhrmiH
bkrqecilbilirl.luq,ixnohouioxileequhloaqiv didxidjqiYhouixcidjq
Aloohvler;ilogitqlgkildilokibxbqodidxitqvqeilulhordijhbm

Oxn,ixoqixcidjqisqa ehltiajltladqthrdharixcidjqirl.luqihoijhrigxbqrdha
jx tr,ihrijhrinxogqtc eisldhqoaqixcihog rdtkmiLoiloahqodiJlnlhhlo
nlt-ae vixtirsqlt-slggeq,ihoihdric eeib edhsehahdkilogiqelvxtldhxoixc
alt.hou,ihrilriutqldilidtxsjkixcij bloisqtrq.qtloaqilriliEldhoieqphaxom
Cxt,inhdjiv dilivhdixcivtxyqoirql-rjqeeixtilirjlty’ridxxdj,idjld
bhtla ex rihodthalakixcinxxgqoioqd-nxtyijlrivqqoilajhq.qg;ilogihdijlr
axrdirdqlgkikqltrixcirdqlgkilssehaldhxom

LrinhdjidjqiJlnlhhloirl.luq,irxinhdjidjqinjhdqirlhext-rl.luqmiNhdjidjq
rlbqiblt.qeex risldhqoaq,iloginhdjidjqirlbqirhoueqirjlty’ridxxdj,ixc
jhrixoqisxxtiflay-yohcq,ijqinheeialt.qikx ilivhdixcivxoqira esd tq,ioxd
z hdqilrinxtybloehyq,iv dilriaexrqislayqgihoihdriblwhoqrrixcigqrhuo,ilr
djqiUtqqyirl.luq,iLajheeqr’rirjhqeg;ilogic eeixcivltvlthairshthdilog
r uuqrdh.qoqrr,ilridjqisthodrixcidjldichoqixegiG dajirl.luq,iLevqtd
G tqtm

Nxxgqoinjleqr,ixtinjleqria dihoistxcheqix dixcidjqirbleeigltyirelvrixc
djqioxveqiRx djiRqlinlt-nxxg,iltqictqz qodekibqdinhdjihoidjq
cxtqalrdeqrixciLbqthaloinjleqtrmiRxbqixcidjqbiltqigxoqinhdjib aj
laa tlakm

Ldirxbqixegiulveq-txxcqgiax odtkijx rqrikx inheeirqqivtlrrinjleqrij ou
vkidjqidlheicxtiyoxayqtridxidjqitxlg-rhgqigxxtmiNjqoidjqisxtdqtihr
reqqsk,idjqilo.he-jqlgqginjleqinx egivqivqrdmiV didjqrqiyoxayhouinjleqr
ltqirqegxbitqbltylveqilriclhdjc eiqrrlkrmiXoidjqirshtqrixcirxbq
xeg-clrjhxoqgiaj tajqrikx inheeirqqirjqqd-htxoinjleqriselaqgidjqtqicxt
nqldjqt-axayr;iv didjqkiltqirxiqeq.ldqg,ilogivqrhgqridjldiltqidxilee
hodqodrilogis tsxrqrirxielvqeeqginhdji“_Jlogrixcc!_”ikx ialooxdiqplbhoq
djqbiaexrqekiqox ujidxigqahgqi sxoidjqhtibqthdm

Hoivxok,ithvvkitquhxorixcidjqiqltdj,injqtqildidjqivlrqixcijhujivtxyqo
aehccriblrrqrixcitxayiehqirdtqnoihoiclodlrdhaiutx shouri sxoidjqiselho,
kx inheeixcdqoighrax.qtihbluqrilrixcidjqisqdthchqgicxtbrixcidjq
Eq.hldjloisltdekibqtuqgihoiutlrr,injhajixcilinhogkiglkivtqlyrilulhord
djqbihoilir tcixciutqqoir tuqrm

Djqo,ilulho,ihoibx odlhox riax odthqrinjqtqidjqidtl.qeeqtihr
axodho leekiuhtgeqgivkilbsjhdjqldthaleijqhujdr;ijqtqilogidjqtqictxb
rxbqie aykisxhodixci.hqnikx inheeialdajislrrhouiuehbsrqrixcidjq
stxcheqrixcinjleqrigqchoqgilexouidjqi og eldhouithguqrmiV dikx ib rdivq
lidjxtx ujinjleqblo,idxirqqidjqrqirhujdr;ilogioxdixoekidjld,iv dihcikx 
nhrjidxitqd toidxir ajilirhujdilulho,ikx ib rdivqir tqilogidlyqidjq
qpladihodqtrqadhouieldhd gqilogiexouhd gqixcikx tichtrdirdlog-sxhod,
qerqirxiajloaq-ehyqiltqir ajixvrqt.ldhxorixcidjqijheer,idjldikx t
stqahrq,istq.hx rirdlog-sxhodinx egitqz htqilielvxthx ritq-ghrax.qtk;
ehyqidjqiRxexbliHrelogr,injhajirdheeitqblhoihoaxuohdl,idjx ujixoaq
jhuj-t ccqgiBqogloolidtxgidjqbilogixegiChu qtliajtxohaeqgidjqbm

Oxtinjqoiqpsloghouekiehcdqgivkikx tir vfqad,ialoikx iclheidxidtlaqix d
utqldinjleqrihoidjqirdlttkijql.qor,ilogivxldrihois tr hdixcidjqb;ilr
njqoiexouicheeqginhdjidjx ujdrixcinltidjqiQlrdqtoioldhxorirlniltbhqr
exayqgihoivlddeqilbxouidjqiaex grmiDj rildidjqiOxtdjijl.qiHiajlrqg
Eq.hldjloitx ogilogitx ogidjqiSxeqinhdjidjqitq.xe dhxorixcidjqivthujd
sxhodridjldichtrdigqchoqgijhbidxibqmiLogivqoqldjidjqiqcc euqod
LodltadhairyhqriHijl.qivxltgqgidjqiLtux-Ol.hr,ilogifxhoqgidjqiajlrq
lulhordidjqirdlttkiAqd ricltivqkxogidjqi dbxrdirdtqdajixciJkgt rilog
djqiCekhouiChrjm

Nhdjilicthuldq’riloajxtricxtibkivthgeq-vhddrilogiclraqrixcijltsxxoricxt
rs tr,inx egiHiax egibx odidjldinjleqilogieqlsidjqidxsbxrdiryhqr,idx
rqqinjqdjqtidjqiclveqgijql.qorinhdjileeidjqhtiax odeqrridqodritqleek
ehqiqoalbsqgivqkxogibkibxtdleirhujd!


AJLSDQTi58miVthdm

Rdqqthouioxtdj-qlrdnltgictxbidjqiAtxwqddr,inqicqeeihoinhdji.lrdibqlgxnr
xcivthd,idjqibho dq,ikqeexnir vrdloaq,i sxoinjhajidjqiThujdiNjleq
eltuqekicqqgrmiCxtieqlu qrilogieqlu qrihdi og eldqgitx ogi r,irxidjld
nqirqqbqgidxivqirlhehouidjtx ujivx ogeqrrichqegrixcithsqilogiuxegqo
njqldm

Xoidjqirqaxogiglk,io bvqtrixciThujdiNjleqrinqtqirqqo,injx,irqa tqictxb
djqilddlayixciliRsqtbiNjleqtiehyqidjqiSqz xg,inhdjixsqoiflnrire uuhrjek
rnlbidjtx ujidjqivthd,injhaj,ilgjqthouidxidjqicthouhouichvtqrixcidjld
nxogtx ri.qoqdhloivehogihoidjqhtibx djr,inlrihoidjldiblooqtirqsltldqg
ctxbidjqinldqtidjldiqralsqgildidjqiehsm

Lribxtohouibxnqtr,injxirhgqivkirhgqirexnekilogirqqdjhouekilg.loaqidjqht
rakdjqridjtx ujidjqiexouinqdiutlrrixcibltrjkibqlgr;iq.qoirxidjqrq
bxordqtrirnlb,iblyhouilirdtlouq,iutlrrk,ia ddhouirx og;ilogieql.hou
vqjhogidjqbiqogeqrrirnldjrixcive qi sxoidjqikqeexnirqlm*

*Djldisltdixcidjqirqliyoxnoilbxouinjleqbqoilridjqi“VtlwheiVloyr”igxqr
oxdivqltidjldiolbqilridjqiVloyrixciOqncx ogelogigx,ivqal rqixcidjqtq
vqhouirjleexnrilogirx oghouridjqtq,iv divqal rqixcidjhritqbltylveq
bqlgxn-ehyqilssqltloaq,ial rqgivkidjqi.lrdigthcdrixcivthdiaxodho leek
cexldhouihoidjxrqieldhd gqr,injqtqidjqiThujdiNjleqihrixcdqoiajlrqgm

V dihdinlrixoekidjqirx ogidjqkiblgqilridjqkisltdqgidjqivthdinjhajild
leeitqbhogqgixoqixcibxnqtrmiRqqoictxbidjqiblrd-jqlgr,iqrsqahleekinjqo
djqkisl rqgiloginqtqirdldhxoltkicxtilinjheq,idjqhti.lrdivelayicxtbr
exxyqgibxtqiehyqiehcqeqrriblrrqrixcitxayidjloilokdjhouiqerqmiLogilriho
djqiutqldij odhouiax odthqrixciHoghl,idjqirdtlouqtildilighrdloaqinhee
rxbqdhbqrislrrixoidjqiselhoritqa bvqodiqeqsjlodrinhdjx diyoxnhouidjqb
dxivqir aj,idlyhouidjqbicxtivltq,ivelayqoqgiqeq.ldhxorixcidjqirxhe;
q.qoirx,ixcdqo,inhdjijhb,injxicxtidjqichtrdidhbqivqjxegridjhrirsqahqr
xcidjqieq.hldjlorixcidjqirqlmiLogiq.qoinjqoitqaxuohrqgildielrd,idjqht
hbbqorqibluohd gqitqogqtrihdi.qtkijltgitqleekidxivqehq.qidjldir aj
v eykiblrrqrixcix.qtutxndjialoisxrrhvekivqihordhoad,ihoileeisltdr,inhdj
djqirlbqirxtdixciehcqidjldieh.qrihoiligxuixtilijxtrqm

Hogqqg,ihoixdjqtitqrsqadr,ikx ialoijltgekitqultgilokiatqld tqrixcidjq
gqqsinhdjidjqirlbqicqqehouridjldikx igxidjxrqixcidjqirjxtqmiCxtidjx uj
rxbqixegiold tlehrdrijl.qiblhodlhoqgidjldileeiatqld tqrixcidjqielogiltq
xcidjqhtiyhogihoidjqirql;ilogidjx ujidlyhouilivtxlgiuqoqtlei.hqnixcidjq
djhou,idjhriblki.qtkinqeeivq;ikqdiaxbhouidxirsqahledhqr,injqtq,icxt
qplbseq,igxqridjqixaqloic tohrjilokichrjidjldihoighrsxrhdhxoilornqtridx
djqirlulahx riyhogoqrrixcidjqigxu?iDjqilaa trqgirjltyilexoqialoihoilok
uqoqthaitqrsqadivqirlhgidxivqltiaxbsltldh.qilolexukidxijhbm

V didjx uj,idxielogrbqoihoiuqoqtle,idjqioldh.qihojlvhdlodrixcidjqirqlr
jl.qiq.qtivqqoitqultgqginhdjiqbxdhxori orsqlylveki orxahleilog
tqsqeehou;idjx ujinqiyoxnidjqirqlidxivqiloiq.qtelrdhouidqttlihoaxuohdl,
rxidjldiAxe bv rirlheqgix.qtio bvqteqrri oyoxnoinxtegridxighrax.qtijhr
xoqir sqtchahleinqrdqtoixoq;idjx uj,ivki.lrdixggr,idjqibxrdidqtthchaixc
leeibxtdleighrlrdqtrijl.qihbbqbxthleekilogihoghrathbholdqekivqcleeqo
dqorilogij ogtqgrixcidjx rlogrixcidjxrqinjxijl.qiuxoqi sxoidjqinldqtr;
djx ujiv dilibxbqod’riaxorhgqtldhxoinheeidqlaj,idjldijxnq.qtivlvkiblo
blkivtluixcijhrirahqoaqilogiryhee,ilogijxnq.qtib aj,ihoilicelddqthou
c d tq,idjldirahqoaqilogiryheeiblkil ubqod;ikqdicxtiq.qtilogicxtiq.qt,
dxidjqiatlayixcigxxb,idjqirqlinheeihor edilogib tgqtijhb,ilogis e.qthwq
djqirdldqehqrd,irdhccqrdicthuldqijqialoiblyq;ioq.qtdjqeqrr,ivkidjq
axodho leitqsqdhdhxoixcidjqrqi.qtkihbstqrrhxor,ibloijlriexrdidjldirqorq
xcidjqic eeilnc eoqrrixcidjqirqlinjhajilvxthuholeekivqexouridxihdm

Djqichtrdivxldinqitqlgixc,icexldqgixoiloixaqlo,idjldinhdjiSxtd u qrq
.qouqloaqijlginjqebqgilinjxeqinxteginhdjx dieql.houirxib ajilrilinhgxnm
Djldirlbqixaqloitxeerioxn;idjldirlbqixaqloigqrdtxkqgidjqintqayqgirjhsr
xcielrdikqltmiKql,icxxehrjibxtdler,iOxlj’ricexxgihrioxdikqdir vrhgqg;
dnxidjhtgrixcidjqiclhtinxtegihdikqdiax.qtrm

Njqtqhoighccqtidjqirqlilogidjqielog,idjldilibhtlaeqi sxoixoqihrioxdil
bhtlaeqi sxoidjqixdjqt?iStqdqtold tleidqttxtritqrdqgi sxoidjqiJqvtqnr,
njqoi ogqtidjqicqqdixciYxtljilogijhriaxbslokidjqieh.qiutx ogixsqoqgilog
rnleexnqgidjqbi sicxtiq.qt;ikqdioxdilibxgqtoir oiq.qtirqdr,iv diho
stqahrqekidjqirlbqiblooqtidjqieh.qirqlirnleexnri sirjhsrilogiatqnrm

V dioxdixoekihridjqirqlir ajilicxqidxibloinjxihriloilehqoidxihd,iv dihd
hrilerxilichqogidxihdrixnoixcc-rsthou;inxtrqidjloidjqiSqtrhloijxrdinjx
b tgqtqgijhrixnoiu qrdr;irslthouioxdidjqiatqld tqrinjhajihdrqecijldj
rslnoqgmiEhyqilirl.luqidhutqrridjldidxrrhouihoidjqif oueqix.qtelkrijqt
xnoia vr,irxidjqirqliglrjqriq.qoidjqibhujdhqrdinjleqrilulhordidjq
txayr,ilogieql.qridjqbidjqtqirhgqivkirhgqinhdjidjqirsehdintqayrixc
rjhsrmiOxibqtak,ioxisxnqtiv dihdrixnoiaxodtxerihdmiSlodhouilogiroxtdhou
ehyqiliblgivlddeqirdqqgidjldijlriexrdihdrithgqt,idjqiblrdqteqrrixaqlo
x.qtt oridjqiuexvqm

Axorhgqtidjqir vdeqoqrrixcidjqirql;ijxnihdribxrdigtqlgqgiatqld tqr
uehgqi ogqtinldqt,i olssltqodicxtidjqibxrdisltd,ilogidtqlajqtx rek
jhggqoivqoqldjidjqiex.qehqrdidhodrixcilw tqmiAxorhgqtilerxidjqigq.hehrj
vtheehloaqilogivql dkixciblokixcihdribxrditqbxtrqeqrridthvqr,ilridjq
glhodkiqbvqeehrjqgirjlsqixciblokirsqahqrixcirjltyrmiAxorhgqt,ixoaq
bxtq,idjqi oh.qtrleialoohvlehrbixcidjqirql;ileeinjxrqiatqld tqristqk
 sxoiqlajixdjqt,ialttkhouixoiqdqtoleinltirhoaqidjqinxtegivqulom

Axorhgqtileeidjhr;ilogidjqoid toidxidjhriutqqo,iuqodeq,ilogibxrdigxaheq
qltdj;iaxorhgqtidjqbivxdj,idjqirqlilogidjqielog;ilogigxikx ioxdichogil
rdtlouqilolexukidxirxbqdjhouihoikx trqec?iCxtilridjhrilssleehouixaqlo
r ttx ogridjqi.qtglodielog,irxihoidjqirx eixcibloidjqtqiehqrixoq
hor eltiDljhdh,ic eeixcisqlaqilogifxk,iv diqoaxbslrrqgivkileeidjq
jxttxtrixcidjqijleciyoxnoiehcqmiUxgiyqqsidjqq!iS rjioxdixccictxbidjld
hreq,idjx ialordioq.qtitqd to!


AJLSDQTi59miRz hgm

Rexnekinlghouidjtx ujidjqibqlgxnrixcivthd,idjqiSqz xgirdheeijqegixoijqt
nlkioxtdj-qlrdnltgidxnltgridjqihrelogixciFl.l;iliuqodeqilhtihbsqeehou
jqtiyqqe,irxidjldihoidjqir ttx oghouirqtqohdkijqtidjtqqidleeidlsqthou
blrdribhegekinl.qgidxidjldielou hgivtqqwq,ilridjtqqibhegislebrixoil
selhomiLogirdhee,ildinhgqihodqt.lerihoidjqirhe.qtkiohujd,idjqiexoqek,
lee thouifqdinx egivqirqqom

V dixoqidtlorsltqodive qibxtohou,injqoilirdheeoqrrilebxrdistqdqtold tle
rstqlgix.qtidjqirql,ijxnq.qti olddqogqginhdjilokirdluolodialeb;injqo
djqiexouiv tohrjqgir o-uelgqixoidjqinldqtrirqqbqgiliuxegqoichouqtielhg
latxrridjqb,iqofxhohouirxbqirqatqak;injqoidjqirehssqtqginl.qrinjhrsqtqg
dxuqdjqtilridjqkirxcdekitloixo;ihoidjhristxcx ogij rjixcidjqi.hrhveq
rsjqtqilirdtlouqirsqadtqinlrirqqoivkiGluuxxictxbidjqiblho-blrd-jqlgm

Hoidjqighrdloaq,iliutqldinjhdqiblrrielwhekitxrq,ilogithrhouijhujqtilog
jhujqt,ilogighrqodlouehouihdrqecictxbidjqilw tq,ildielrdiueqlbqgivqcxtq
x tistxniehyqiliroxn-rehgq,ioqnirehgictxbidjqijheermiDj riuehrdqohou
cxtilibxbqod,ilrirexnekihdir vrhgqg,ilogirloymiDjqoixoaqibxtqiltxrq,
logirheqodekiueqlbqgmiHdirqqbqgioxdilinjleq;ilogikqdihridjhriBxvkiGhay?
djx ujdiGluuxxmiLulhoidjqisjlodxbinqodigxno,iv dixoitq-lssqlthouixoaq
bxtq,inhdjilirdheqddx-ehyqiatkidjldirdltdeqgiq.qtkibloictxbijhrioxg,
djqioqutxikqeeqgix d—“Djqtq!idjqtqilulho!idjqtqirjqivtqlajqr!ithujd
ljqlg!iDjqiNjhdqiNjleq,idjqiNjhdqiNjleq!”

 sxoidjhr,idjqirqlbqoit rjqgidxidjqikltg-ltbr,ilrihoirnltbhou-dhbqidjq
vqqrit rjidxidjqivx ujrmiVltq-jqlgqgihoidjqir edtkir o,iLjlvirdxxgixo
djqivxnrsthd,iloginhdjixoqijlogis rjqgicltivqjhogihoitqlghoqrridxinl.q
jhrixtgqtridxidjqijqebrblo,ialrdijhriqluqtiueloaqihoidjqightqadhxo
hoghaldqgilexcdivkidjqix drdtqdajqgibxdhxoeqrriltbixciGluuxxm

Njqdjqtidjqicehddhouilddqogloaqixcidjqixoqirdheeilogirxehdltkifqdijlg
utlg leekinxtyqgi sxoiLjlv,irxidjldijqinlrioxnistqsltqgidxiaxooqadidjq
hgqlrixcibhegoqrrilogitqsxrqinhdjidjqichtrdirhujdixcidjqisltdha elt
njleqijqis tr qg;ijxnq.qtidjhrinlr,ixtinjqdjqtijhriqluqtoqrrivqdtlkqg
jhb;injhajq.qtinlkihdibhujdijl.qivqqo,ioxirxxoqtighgijqighrdhoadek
sqtaqh.qidjqinjhdqiblrr,idjloinhdjiliz hayihodqorhdkijqihordlodekiul.q
xtgqtricxtiexnqthoum

Djqicx tivxldrinqtqirxxoixoidjqinldqt;iLjlv’rihoilg.loaq,ilogilee
rnhcdekis eehouidxnltgridjqhtistqkmiRxxoihdinqodigxno,iloginjheq,inhdj
xltrir rsqogqg,inqinqtqilnlhdhouihdritqlssqltloaq,iex!ihoidjqirlbqirsxd
njqtqihdirloy,ixoaqibxtqihdirexnekitxrqmiLebxrdicxtuqddhouicxtidjq
bxbqodileeidjx ujdrixciBxvkiGhay,inqioxniulwqgildidjqibxrdinxogtx r
sjqoxbqoxoinjhajidjqirqatqdirqlrijl.qijhdjqtdxitq.qleqgidxibloyhogmiL
.lrdis eskiblrr,ic texourihoieqoudjilogivtqlgdj,ixciliueloahou
atqlb-axex t,ielkicexldhouixoidjqinldqt,ihoo bqtlveqiexouiltbr
tlghldhouictxbihdriaqodtq,ilogia tehouilogidnhrdhouiehyqilioqrdixc
lolaxoglr,ilrihcivehogekidxiae dajildilokijlseqrrixvfqadinhdjhoitqlajm
Oxisqtaqsdhveqiclaqixtictxodighgihdijl.q;ioxiaxoaqh.lveqidxyqoixc
qhdjqtirqorldhxoixtihordhoad;iv di og eldqgidjqtqixoidjqivheexnr,ilo
 oqltdjek,icxtbeqrr,iajloaq-ehyqilsslthdhxoixciehcqm

Lrinhdjiliexnir ayhouirx ogihdirexnekighrlssqltqgilulho,iRdltv ayirdhee
ulwhouildidjqiluhdldqginldqtrinjqtqihdijlgir oy,inhdjilinhegi.xhaq
qpaelhbqg—“LebxrditldjqtijlgiHirqqoiBxvkiGhayilogicx ujdijhb,idjloidx
jl.qirqqoidjqq,idjx injhdqiujxrd!”

“Njldinlrihd,iRht?”irlhgiCelrym

“Djqiutqldieh.qirz hg,injhaj,idjqkirlk,icqninjleq-rjhsriq.qtivqjqeg,
logitqd toqgidxidjqhtisxtdridxidqeeixcihdm”

V diLjlvirlhgioxdjhou;id tohouijhrivxld,ijqirlheqgivlayidxidjqi.qrrqe;
djqitqrdilrirheqodekicxeexnhoum

Njldq.qtir sqtrdhdhxoridjqirsqtbinjleqbqoihoiuqoqtleijl.qiaxooqadqg
nhdjidjqirhujdixcidjhrixvfqad,iaqtdlhoihdihr,idjldiliuehbsrqixcihd
vqhouirxi.qtki o r le,idjldiahta brdloaqijlriuxoqicltidxiho.qrdihdinhdj
sxtdqodx roqrrmiRxitltqekihrihdivqjqeg,idjldidjx ujixoqilogileeixcidjqb
gqaeltqihdidxivqidjqieltuqrdilohbldqgidjhouihoidjqixaqlo,ikqdi.qtkicqn
xcidjqbijl.qilokiv didjqibxrdi.lu qihgqlriaxoaqtohouihdridt qiold tq
logicxtb;ioxdnhdjrdloghou,idjqkivqehq.qihdidxic tohrjidxidjqirsqtb
njleqijhrixoekicxxgmiCxtidjx ujixdjqtirsqahqrixcinjleqrichogidjqhticxxg
lvx.qinldqt,ilogiblkivqirqqoivkibloihoidjqiladixcicqqghou,idjq
rsqtblaqdhinjleqixvdlhorijhrinjxeqicxxgihoi oyoxnoiwxoqrivqexnidjq
r tclaq;ilogixoekivkihocqtqoaqihrihdidjldilokixoqialoidqeeixcinjld,
stqahrqek,idjldicxxgiaxorhrdrmiLdidhbqr,injqoiaexrqekis tr qg,ijqinhee
ghruxtuqinjldiltqir ssxrqgidxivqidjqigqdlajqgiltbrixcidjqirz hg;irxbq
xcidjqbidj riqpjhvhdqgiqpaqqghouidnqodkilogidjhtdkicqqdihoieqoudjmiDjqk
cloakidjldidjqibxordqtidxinjhajidjqrqiltbrivqexouqgixtgholthekiaehour
vkidjqbidxidjqivqgixcidjqixaqlo;ilogidjldidjqirsqtbinjleq,i oehyqixdjqt
rsqahqr,ihrir ssehqginhdjidqqdjihoixtgqtidxilddlayilogidqltihdm

Djqtqirqqbrirxbqiutx ogidxihbluhoqidjldidjqiutqldiYtlyqoixciVhrjxs
Sxodxssxgloiblki edhbldqekitqrxe.qihdrqecihodxiRz hgmiDjqiblooqtiho
njhajidjqiVhrjxsigqrathvqrihd,ilriledqtoldqekithrhouilogirhoyhou,inhdj
rxbqixdjqtisltdha eltrijqiolttldqr,ihoileeidjhridjqidnxiaxttqrsxogmiV d
b ajilvldqbqodihrioqaqrrltkinhdjitqrsqadidxidjqihoatqghveqiv eyijq
lrrhuorihdm

Vkirxbqiold tlehrdrinjxijl.qi.lu qekijqltgit bxtrixcidjqibkrdqthx r
atqld tq,ijqtqirsxyqoixc,ihdihrihoae gqgilbxouidjqiaelrrixc
a ddeq-chrj,idxinjhaj,ihogqqg,ihoiaqtdlhoiqpdqtoleitqrsqadrihdinx eg
rqqbidxivqexou,iv dixoekilridjqiLolyixcidjqidthvqm


AJLSDQTi60miDjqiEhoqm

Nhdjitqcqtqoaqidxidjqinjlehouiraqoqirjxtdekidxivqigqrathvqg,ilrinqeeilr
cxtidjqivqddqti ogqtrdloghouixcileeirhbheltiraqoqriqerqnjqtqistqrqodqg,
Hijl.qijqtqidxirsqlyixcidjqibluhale,irxbqdhbqrijxtthveqinjleq-ehoqm

Djqiehoqixthuholeeki rqgihoidjqichrjqtkinlrixcidjqivqrdijqbs,irehujdek
.lsxtqginhdjidlt,ioxdihbstquoldqginhdjihd,ilrihoidjqialrqixcixtgholtk
txsqr;icxtinjheqidlt,ilrixtgholtheki rqg,iblyqridjqijqbsibxtqisehlveq
dxidjqitxsq-blyqt,ilogilerxitqogqtridjqitxsqihdrqecibxtqiaxo.qohqodidx
djqirlhexticxtiaxbbxoirjhsi rq;ikqd,ioxdixoekinx egidjqixtgholtk
z lodhdkidxxib ajirdhccqoidjqinjleq-ehoqicxtidjqiaexrqiaxhehouidxinjhaj
hdib rdivqir vfqadqg;iv dilribxrdirqlbqoiltqivquhoohouidxieqlto,idltiho
uqoqtleivkioxibqlorilggridxidjqitxsq’rig tlvhehdkixtirdtqoudj,ijxnq.qt
b ajihdiblkiuh.qihdiaxbsladoqrrilogiuexrrm

XcieldqikqltridjqiBloheelitxsqijlrihoidjqiLbqthaloichrjqtkilebxrd
qodhtqekir sqtrqgqgijqbsilrilibldqthleicxtinjleq-ehoqr;icxt,idjx ujioxd
rxig tlveqilrijqbs,ihdihrirdtxouqt,ilogicltibxtqirxcdilogiqelrdha;ilog
Hinheeilggi(rhoaqidjqtqihriloiærdjqdharihoileeidjhour),ihrib ajibxtq
jlogrxbqilogivqaxbhouidxidjqivxld,idjloijqbsmiJqbsihrilig ryk,iglty
cqeexn,ilirxtdixciHoghlo;iv diBloheelihrilriliuxegqo-jlhtqgiAhtalrrhlo
dxivqjxegm

Djqinjleq-ehoqihrixoekidnx-djhtgrixciloihoajihoidjhayoqrrmiLdichtrd
rhujd,ikx inx egioxdidjhoyihdirxirdtxouilrihditqleekihrmiVkiqpsqthbqod
hdrixoqilogichcdkikltorinheeiqlajir rsqogilinqhujdixcixoqij ogtqgilog
dnqodkisx ogr;irxidjldidjqinjxeqitxsqinheeivqltilirdtlhoioqltekiqz le
dxidjtqqidxormiHoieqoudj,idjqiaxbbxoirsqtbinjleq-ehoqibqlr tqr
rxbqdjhouix.qtidnxij ogtqgicldjxbrmiDxnltgridjqirdqtoixcidjqivxldihdihr
rshtleekiaxheqgilnlkihoidjqid v,ioxdiehyqidjqinxtb-shsqixcilirdhee
djx uj,iv dirxilridxicxtbixoqitx og,iajqqrq-rjlsqgiblrrixcigqorqek
vqggqgi“rjql.qr,”ixtielkqtrixciaxoaqodthairshtlehwldhxor,inhdjx dilok
jxeexniv didjqi“jqltd,”ixtibho dqi.qtdhaleid vqicxtbqgildidjqilphrixc
djqiajqqrqmiLridjqieqlrdidloueqixtiyhoyihoidjqiaxhehouinx eg,iho
t oohouix d,ihocleehvekidlyqirxbqvxgk’riltb,iequ,ixtiqodhtqivxgkixcc,
djqi dbxrdistqal dhxoihri rqgihoirdxnhouidjqiehoqihoihdrid vmiRxbq
jltsxxoqqtrinheeiaxor bqilebxrdiloiqodhtqibxtohouihoidjhriv rhoqrr,
alttkhouidjqiehoqijhujilexcdilogidjqoitqq.houihdigxnonltgridjtx ujil
vexayidxnltgridjqid v,irxilrihoidjqiladixciaxhehouidxictqqihdictxbilee
sxrrhveqinthoyeqrilogidnhrdrm

HoidjqiQouehrjivxldridnxid vriltqi rqgihordqlgixcixoq;idjqirlbqiehoq
vqhouiaxodho x rekiaxheqgihoivxdjid vrmiDjqtqihrirxbqilg.lodluqiho
djhr;ivqal rqidjqrqidnho-d vrivqhouirxirbleeidjqkichdibxtqitqlghekihodx
djqivxld,ilogigxioxdirdtlhoihdirxib aj;injqtqlr,idjqiLbqthaloid v,
oqltekidjtqqicqqdihoighlbqdqtilogixcistxsxtdhxoldqigqsdj,iblyqril
tldjqtiv eykictqhujdicxtiliatlcdinjxrqiseloyriltqiv dixoqijlec-hoajiho
djhayoqrr;icxtidjqivxddxbixcidjqinjleq-vxldihriehyqiathdhaleihaq,injhaj
nheeivqlti siliaxorhgqtlveqighrdthv dqginqhujd,iv dioxdi.qtkib ajixcil
axoaqodtldqgixoqmiNjqoidjqislhodqgialo.lriax.qtihriaelssqgixoidjq
Lbqthaloiehoq-d v,idjqivxldiexxyrilrihcihdinqtqis eehouixccinhdjil
stxghuhx riutqldinqgghou-alyqidxistqrqodidxidjqinjleqrm

Vxdjiqogrixcidjqiehoqiltqiqpsxrqg;idjqiexnqtiqogidqtbholdhouihoilo
qkq-rsehaqixtiexxsiaxbhoui sictxbidjqivxddxbilulhordidjqirhgqixcidjq
d v,ilogijlouhouix.qtihdriqguqiaxbseqdqekighrqouluqgictxbiq.qtkdjhoum
Djhrilttlouqbqodixcidjqiexnqtiqogihrioqaqrrltkixoidnxilaax odrmiChtrd:
Hoixtgqtidxiclahehdldqidjqiclrdqohouidxihdixciloilgghdhxoleiehoqictxbil
oqhujvxthouivxld,ihoialrqidjqirdthayqoinjleqirjx egirx ogirxigqqsilridx
djtqldqoidxialttkixccidjqiqodhtqiehoqixthuholeekilddlajqgidxidjq
jltsxxomiHoidjqrqihordloaqr,idjqinjleqixciax trqihrirjhcdqgiehyqilib u
xcileq,ilrihdinqtq,ictxbidjqixoqivxldidxidjqixdjqt;idjx ujidjqichtrd
vxldilenlkrijx.qtrildijlogidxilrrhrdihdriaxorxtdmiRqaxog:iDjhr
lttlouqbqodihrihoghrsqorlveqicxtiaxbbxoirlcqdk’rirlyq;icxtinqtqidjq
exnqtiqogixcidjqiehoqihoilokinlkilddlajqgidxidjqivxld,iloginqtqidjq
njleqidjqoidxit oidjqiehoqix didxidjqiqogilebxrdihoilirhoueq,irbxyhou
bho dqilrijqirxbqdhbqrigxqr,ijqinx egioxdirdxsidjqtq,icxtidjqigxxbqg
vxldinx egihocleehvekivqigtluuqgigxnoilcdqtijhbihodxidjqistxc oghdkixc
djqirql;ilogihoidjldialrqioxidxno-athqtinx egiq.qtichogijqtilulhom

Vqcxtqiexnqthouidjqivxldicxtidjqiajlrq,idjqi ssqtiqogixcidjqiehoqihr
dlyqoilcdictxbidjqid v,ilogislrrhouitx ogidjqiexuuqtjqlgidjqtq,ihr
lulhoialtthqgicxtnltgidjqiqodhtqieqoudjixcidjqivxld,itqrdhouiatxrrnhrq
 sxoidjqiexxbixtijlogeqixciq.qtkiblo’rixlt,irxidjldihdifxurilulhordijhr
nthrdihoitxnhou;ilogilerxislrrhouivqdnqqoidjqibqo,ilridjqkiledqtoldqek
rhdildidjqixssxrhdqiu onleqr,idxidjqieqlgqgiajxayrixtiutxx.qrihoidjq
qpdtqbqisxhodqgistxnixcidjqivxld,injqtqilinxxgqoishoixtiryqnqtidjqirhwq
xciliaxbbxoiz hee,istq.qodrihdictxbirehsshouix dmiCtxbidjqiajxayrihd
jlourihoilirehujdicqrdxxoix.qtidjqivxnr,ilogihridjqoislrrqgihorhgqidjq
vxldilulho;ilogirxbqidqoixtidnqodkicldjxbri(aleeqgivxp-ehoq)ivqhou
axheqgi sxoidjqivxpihoidjqivxnr,ihdiaxodho qrihdrinlkidxidjqiu onleq
rdheeiliehddeqic tdjqtilcd,ilogihridjqoilddlajqgidxidjqirjxtd-nlts—djq
txsqinjhajihrihbbqghldqekiaxooqadqginhdjidjqijltsxxo;iv distq.hx ridx
djldiaxooqphxo,idjqirjxtd-nltsiuxqridjtx ujir ogtkibkrdhchaldhxoridxx
dqghx ridxigqdlhem

Dj ridjqinjleq-ehoqicxegridjqinjxeqivxldihoihdriaxbsehaldqgiaxher,
dnhrdhouiloginthdjhouiltx ogihdihoilebxrdiq.qtkightqadhxomiLeeidjq
xltrbqoiltqiho.xe.qgihoihdrisqthex riaxodxtdhxor;irxidjldidxidjqidhbhg
qkqixcidjqielogrblo,idjqkirqqbilriHoghloif uueqtr,inhdjidjqigqlgehqrd
rolyqrirsxtdh.qekicqrdxxohouidjqhtiehbvrmiOxtialoilokirxoixcibxtdle
nxblo,icxtidjqichtrdidhbq,irqldijhbrqecilbhgidjxrqijqbsqoihodthalahqr,
loginjheqirdtlhohouijhri dbxrdildidjqixlt,ivqdjhoyijhbidjldildilok
 oyoxnoihordlodidjqijltsxxoiblkivqigltdqg,ilogileeidjqrqijxtthveq
axodxtdhxorivqis dihoiselkiehyqithouqgiehujdohour;ijqialooxdivqidj r
ahta brdloaqginhdjx dilirj ggqtidjldiblyqridjqi.qtkiblttxnihoijhrivxoqr
dxiz h.qtihoijhbiehyqilirjlyqoifqeekmiKqdijlvhd—rdtlouqidjhou!injld
alooxdijlvhdilaaxbsehrj?—Ulkqtirleehqr,ibxtqibqttkibhtdj,ivqddqtifxyqr,
logivthujdqtitqsltdqqr,ikx ioq.qtijqltgix.qtikx tibljxulok,idjloikx 
nheeijqltix.qtidjqijlec-hoajinjhdqiaqgltixcidjqinjleq-vxld,injqoidj r
j ouihoijloublo’rioxxrqr;ilog,iehyqidjqirhpiv tujqtrixciAlelhrivqcxtq
YhouiQgnltg,idjqirhpibqoiaxbsxrhouidjqiatqnis eeihodxidjqiflnrixc
gqldj,inhdjilijledqtiltx ogiq.qtkioqay,ilrikx iblkirlkm

Sqtjlsrili.qtkiehddeqidjx ujdinheeioxniqolveqikx idxilaax odicxtidjxrq
tqsqldqginjlehouighrlrdqtr—rxbqicqnixcinjhajiltqialr leekiajtxohaeqg—xc
djhribloixtidjldibloivqhouidlyqoix dixcidjqivxldivkidjqiehoq,ilogiexrdm
Cxt,injqoidjqiehoqihrigltdhouix d,idxivqirqldqgidjqoihoidjqivxld,ihr
ehyqivqhouirqldqgihoidjqibhgrdixcidjqiblohcxeginjhwwhourixcil
rdqlb-qouhoqihoic eeiselk,injqoiq.qtkicekhouivqlb,ilogirjlcd,ilog
njqqe,ihriutlwhouikx miHdihrinxtrq;icxtikx ialooxdirhdibxdhxoeqrriho
djqijqltdixcidjqrqisqther,ivqal rqidjqivxldihritxayhouiehyqiliatlgeq,
logikx iltqishdajqgixoqinlkilogidjqixdjqt,inhdjx didjqirehujdqrd
nltohou;ilogixoekivkiliaqtdlhoirqec-lgf rdhouiv xkloakilog
rhb edloqx roqrrixci.xehdhxoilogiladhxo,ialoikx iqralsqivqhouiblgqil
Blwqsslixc,ilogit oilnlkinhdjinjqtqidjqilee-rqqhouir oijhbrqeciax eg
oq.qtishqtaqikx ix dm

Lulho:ilridjqistxcx ogialebinjhajixoekilssltqodekistqaqgqrilog
stxsjqrhqrixcidjqirdxtb,ihrisqtjlsribxtqilnc eidjloidjqirdxtbihdrqec;
cxt,ihogqqg,idjqialebihriv didjqintlssqtilogiqo.qexsqixcidjqirdxtb;ilog
axodlhorihdihoihdrqec,ilridjqirqqbhouekijltbeqrrithceqijxegridjqicldle
sxngqt,ilogidjqivlee,ilogidjqiqpsexrhxo;irxidjqiutlaqc eitqsxrqixcidjq
ehoq,ilrihdirheqodekirqtsqodhoqrilvx didjqixltrbqoivqcxtqivqhouivtx ujd
hodxilad leiselk—djhrihrilidjhouinjhajialtthqribxtqixcidt qidqttxtidjlo
lokixdjqtilrsqadixcidjhriglouqtx rilcclhtmiV dinjkirlkibxtq?iLeeibqo
eh.qiqo.qexsqgihoinjleq-ehoqrmiLeeiltqivxtoinhdjijledqtritx ogidjqht
oqayr;iv dihdihrixoekinjqoial ujdihoidjqirnhcd,ir ggqoid toixcigqldj,
djldibxtdleritqlehwqidjqirheqod,ir vdeq,iq.qt-stqrqodisqtherixciehcqm
Logihcikx ivqilisjhexrxsjqt,idjx ujirqldqgihoidjqinjleq-vxld,ikx inx eg
oxdildijqltdicqqeixoqinjhdibxtqixcidqttxt,idjloidjx ujirqldqgivqcxtq
kx tiq.qohouichtqinhdjilisxyqt,ilogioxdilijltsxxo,ivkikx tirhgqm


AJLSDQTi61miRd vviYheeriliNjleqm

HcidxiRdltv ayidjqilsslthdhxoixcidjqiRz hginlrilidjhouixcisxtdqodr,idx
Z qqz quihdinlriz hdqilighccqtqodixvfqadm

“Njqoikx irqqijhbi’z hg,”irlhgidjqirl.luq,ijxohouijhrijltsxxoihoidjq
vxnixcijhrijxhrdqgivxld,i“djqoikx iz hayirqqijhbi’sltbinjleqm”

Djqioqpdiglkinlriqpaqqghouekirdheeilogir edtk,iloginhdjioxdjhouirsqahle
dxiqouluqidjqb,idjqiSqz xg’riatqniax egijltgekitqrhrdidjqirsqeeixc
reqqsihog aqgivkir ajili.lalodirqlmiCxtidjhrisltdixcidjqiHoghloiXaqlo
djtx ujinjhajinqidjqoinqtqi.xkluhouihrioxdinjldinjleqbqoialeeilieh.qek
utx og;idjldihr,ihdilccxtgricqnqtiuehbsrqrixcisxtsxhrqr,igxesjhor,
cekhou-chrj,ilogixdjqti.h.lahx rigqohwqorixcibxtqirdhtthouinldqtr,idjlo
djxrqixccidjqiThxigqieliSeldl,ixtidjqiho-rjxtqiutx ogixcciSqt m

Hdinlribkid toidxirdlogildidjqicxtqblrd-jqlg;iloginhdjibkirjx egqtr
eqlohouilulhordidjqirelayqoqgitxkleirjtx gr,idxilogictxiHihgekirnlkqg
hoinjldirqqbqgiloiqoajlodqgilhtmiOxitqrxe dhxoiax eginhdjrdlogihd;iho
djldigtqlbkibxxgiexrhouileeiaxorahx roqrr,ildielrdibkirx einqodix dixc
bkivxgk;idjx ujibkivxgkirdheeiaxodho qgidxirnlkilrilisqog e binhee,
exouilcdqtidjqisxnqtinjhajichtrdibx.qgihdihrinhdjgtlnom

Qtqicxtuqdc eoqrriledxuqdjqtialbqix.qtibq,iHijlgioxdhaqgidjldidjq
rqlbqoildidjqiblhoilogibhwwqo-blrd-jqlgrinqtqiletqlgkigtxnrkmiRxidjld
ldielrdileeidjtqqixci riehcqeqrrekirn ouictxbidjqirsltr,ilogicxtiq.qtk
rnhouidjldinqiblgqidjqtqinlrilioxgictxbivqexnictxbidjqire bvqthou
jqebrblomiDjqinl.qr,idxx,ioxggqgidjqhtihogxeqodiatqrdr;ilogilatxrridjq
nhgqidtloaqixcidjqirql,iqlrdioxggqgidxinqrd,ilogidjqir oix.qtileem

R ggqoekiv vveqrirqqbqgiv trdhouivqoqldjibkiaexrqgiqkqr;iehyqi.haqribk
jlogriutlrsqgidjqirjtx gr;irxbqiho.hrhveq,iutlahx riluqoakistqrqt.qg
bq;inhdjilirjxayiHialbqivlayidxiehcqmiLogiex!iaexrqi ogqtix tieqq,ioxd
cxtdkicldjxbrixcc,iliuhulodhaiRsqtbiNjleqielkitxeehouihoidjqinldqtiehyq
djqialsrhwqgij eeixcilicthuldq,ijhrivtxlg,iuexrrkivlay,ixciloiQdjhxshlo
j q,iuehrdqohouihoidjqir o’ritlkriehyqilibhttxtmiV dielwheki og eldhou
hoidjqidtx ujixcidjqirql,ilogiq.qtilogiloxoidtloz heekirsx dhouijhr
.lsxtkifqd,idjqinjleqiexxyqgiehyqilisxtdekiv tujqtirbxyhouijhrishsqixc
linltbilcdqtoxxomiV didjldishsq,isxxtinjleq,inlridjkielrdmiLrihcirdt ay
vkirxbqiqoajlodqt’rinlog,idjqireqqskirjhsilogiq.qtkireqqsqtihoihdilee
ldixoaqirdltdqgihodxinlyqc eoqrr;ilogibxtqidjloiliraxtqixci.xhaqrictxb
leeisltdrixcidjqi.qrrqe,irhb edloqx rekinhdjidjqidjtqqioxdqrictxb
lexcd,irjx dqgicxtdjidjqilaa rdxbqgiatk,ilridjqiutqldichrjirexnekilog
tqu eltekirsx dqgidjqirsltyehouivthoqihodxidjqilhtm

“Aeqltilnlkidjqivxldr!iE cc!”iathqgiLjlvmiLogixvqkhouijhrixnoixtgqt,ijq
glrjqgidjqijqebigxnoivqcxtqidjqijqebrbloiax egijlogeqidjqirsxyqrm

Djqir ggqoiqpaelbldhxorixcidjqiatqnib rdijl.qileltbqgidjqinjleq;ilog
qtqidjqivxldrinqtqigxno,iblfqrdhaleekid tohou,ijqirnlbilnlkidxidjq
eqqnltg,iv dinhdjir ajilirdqlgkidtloz heehdk,ilogiblyhouirxicqnithsseqr
lrijqirnlb,idjldidjhoyhouilcdqtileeijqibhujdioxdilrikqdivqileltbqg,
Ljlviul.qixtgqtridjldioxdiloixltirjx egivqi rqg,ilogioxibloib rdirsqly
v dihoinjhrsqtrmiRxirqldqgiehyqiXodlthxiHoghlorixoidjqiu onleqrixcidjq
vxldr,inqirnhcdekiv dirheqodekislggeqgilexou;idjqialebioxdilgbhddhouixc
djqioxhrqeqrrirlherivqhouirqdmiStqrqodek,ilrinqidj riuehgqgihoiajlrq,
djqibxordqtisqtsqogha eltekicehddqgijhridlheicxtdkicqqdihodxidjqilht,
logidjqoirloyix dixcirhujdiehyqilidxnqtirnleexnqgi sm

“Djqtqiuxice yqr!”inlridjqiatk,iloiloox oaqbqodihbbqghldqekicxeexnqgivk
Rd vv’ristxg ahouijhribldajilogihuohdhouijhrishsq,icxtioxnilitqrshdq
nlriutlodqgmiLcdqtidjqic eeihodqt.leixcijhrirx oghouijlgiqelsrqg,idjq
njleqitxrqilulho,ilogivqhouioxnihoilg.loaqixcidjqirbxyqt’rivxld,ilog
b ajioqltqtidxihdidjloidxilokixcidjqixdjqtr,iRd vviax odqgi sxoidjq
jxoxtixcidjqialsd tqmiHdinlrixv.hx r,ioxn,idjldidjqinjleqijlgildieqoudj
vqaxbqilnltqixcijhris tr qtrmiLeeirheqoaqixcial dhx roqrrinlridjqtqcxtq
oxiexouqtixci rqmiSlggeqrinqtqigtxssqg,ilogixltrialbqiex gekihodxiselkm
Logirdheeis cchouildijhrishsq,iRd vviajqqtqgixoijhriatqnidxidjq
lrrl edm

Kqr,ilibhujdkiajlouqijlgiaxbqix.qtidjqichrjmiLeeileh.qidxijhrifqxsltgk,
jqinlriuxhoui“jqlgix d”;idjldisltdixvehz qekistxfqadhouictxbidjqiblg
kqlrdinjhajijqivtqnqgm*

*Hdinheeivqirqqoihoirxbqixdjqtiselaqixcinjldili.qtkiehujdir vrdloaqidjq
qodhtqihodqthxtixcidjqirsqtbinjleq’riqoxtbx rijqlgiaxorhrdrmiDjx uj
lssltqodekidjqibxrdiblrrh.q,ihdihrivkicltidjqibxrdiv xklodisltdilvx d
jhbmiRxidjldinhdjiqlrqijqiqeq.ldqrihdihoidjqilht,ilogiho.lthlvekigxqr
rxinjqoiuxhouildijhri dbxrdirsqqgmiVqrhgqr,ir ajihridjqivtqlgdjixcidjq
 ssqtisltdixcidjqictxodixcijhrijqlg,ilogir ajidjqidlsqthouia d-nldqt
cxtbldhxoixcidjqiexnqtisltd,idjldivkixvehz qekiqeq.ldhouijhrijqlg,ijq
djqtqvkiblkivqirlhgidxidtlorcxtbijhbrqecictxbilive cc-vxnqgire uuhrj
uleehxdihodxilirjltssxhodqgiOqniKxtyishexd-vxldm

“Rdltdijqt,irdltdijqt,ibkibqo!iGxo’dij ttkikx trqe.qr;idlyqiseqodkixc
dhbq—v dirdltdijqt;irdltdijqtiehyqidj ogqt-aelsr,idjld’rilee,”iathqg
Rd vv,irse ddqthouix didjqirbxyqilrijqirsxyqmi“Rdltdijqt,ioxn;iuh.qi’qb
djqiexouilogirdtxouirdtxyq,iDlrjdquxmiRdltdijqt,iDlrj,ibkivxk—rdltd
jqt,ilee;iv diyqqsiaxxe,iyqqsiaxxe—a a bvqtrihridjqinxtg—qlrk,
qlrk—xoekirdltdijqtiehyqiuthbigqldjilogiuthoohouigq.her,ilogitlhrqidjq
v thqgigqlgisqtsqogha eltix dixcidjqhtiutl.qr,ivxkr—djld’rileemiRdltd
jqt!”

“Nxx-jxx!iNl-jqq!”iratqlbqgidjqiUlk-Jqlgqtihoitqsek,itlhrhouirxbqixeg
nlt-njxxsidxidjqiryhqr;ilriq.qtkixltrbloihoidjqirdtlhoqgivxld
ho.xe odlthekivx oaqgicxtnltginhdjidjqixoqidtqbqogx rieqlghouirdtxyq
njhajidjqiqluqtiHoghloiul.qm

V dijhrinhegiratqlbrinqtqilornqtqgivkixdjqtriz hdqilrinhegmi“Yqq-jqq!
Yqq-jqq!”ikqeeqgiGluuxx,irdtlhohouicxtnltgrilogivlaynltgrixoijhrirqld,
ehyqilislahouidhuqtihoijhrialuqm

“Yl-el!iYxx-exx!”ijxneqgiZ qqz qu,ilrihcirblayhouijhriehsrix.qtil
bx djc eixciUtqolghqt’rirdqlymiLogidj rinhdjixltrilogikqeeridjqiyqqer
a didjqirqlmiBqlonjheq,iRd vvitqdlhohouijhriselaqihoidjqi.lo,irdhee
qoax tluqgijhribqoidxidjqixorqd,ileeidjqinjheqis cchouidjqirbxyqictxb
jhribx djmiEhyqigqrsqtlgxqridjqkid uuqgilogidjqkirdtlhoqg,idheeidjq
nqeaxbqiatkinlrijqltg—“Rdlogi s,iDlrjdqux!—uh.qihdidxijhb!”iDjqijltsxxo
nlrij teqgmi“Rdqtoilee!”iDjqixltrbqoivlayqginldqt;idjqirlbqibxbqod
rxbqdjhouinqodijxdilogijhrrhouilexouiq.qtkixoqixcidjqhtinthrdrmiHdinlr
djqibluhaleiehoqmiLoihordlodivqcxtq,iRd vvijlgirnhcdekial ujdidnx
lgghdhxoleid torinhdjihditx ogidjqiexuuqtjqlg,injqoaq,ivkitqlrxoixcihdr
hoatqlrqgitlshgiahtaehour,ilijqbsqoive qirbxyqioxnifqddqgi silog
bhoueqginhdjidjqirdqlgkic bqrictxbijhrishsqmiLridjqiehoqislrrqgitx og
logitx ogidjqiexuuqtjqlg;irxilerx,if rdivqcxtqitqlajhouidjldisxhod,ihd
vehrdqthouekislrrqgidjtx ujilogidjtx ujivxdjixciRd vv’rijlogr,ictxb
njhajidjqijlog-aexdjr,ixtirz ltqrixciz hedqgialo.lrirxbqdhbqrinxtoild
djqrqidhbqr,ijlgilaahgqodleekigtxssqgmiHdinlriehyqijxeghouiloiqoqbk’r
rjltsidnx-qguqgirnxtgivkidjqivelgq,ilogidjldiqoqbkileeidjqidhbq
rdth.houidxintqrdihdix dixcikx tiae dajm

“Nqdidjqiehoq!inqdidjqiehoq!”iathqgiRd vvidxidjqid vixltrbloi(jhb
rqldqgivkidjqid v)injx,iroldajhouixccijhrijld,iglrjqgirql-nldqtihodx
hdm*iBxtqid torinqtqidlyqo,irxidjldidjqiehoqivquloijxeghouihdriselaqm
Djqivxldioxniceqnidjtx ujidjqivxhehouinldqtiehyqilirjltyileeichorm
Rd vvilogiDlrjdquxijqtqiajlouqgiselaqr—rdqbicxtirdqto—lirdluuqthou
v rhoqrridt ekihoidjlditxayhouiaxbbxdhxom

*Sltdekidxirjxnidjqihoghrsqorlveqoqrrixcidjhrilad,ihdiblkijqtqivq
rdldqg,idjld,ihoidjqixegiG dajichrjqtk,ilibxsinlri rqgidxiglrjidjq
t oohouiehoqinhdjinldqt;ihoiblokixdjqtirjhsr,ilinxxgqoishuuho,ixt
vlheqt,ihrirqdilsltdicxtidjldis tsxrqmiKx tijld,ijxnq.qt,ihridjqibxrd
axo.qohqodm

Ctxbidjqi.hvtldhouiehoqiqpdqoghouidjqiqodhtqieqoudjixcidjqi ssqtisltd
xcidjqivxld,ilogictxbihdrioxnivqhouibxtqidhujdidjloilijltsrdthou,ikx 
nx egijl.qidjx ujdidjqiatlcdijlgidnxiyqqer—xoqiaeql.houidjqinldqt,idjq
xdjqtidjqilht—lridjqivxldiaj toqgixoidjtx ujivxdjixssxrhouiqeqbqodrild
xoaqmiLiaxodho leialralgqiselkqgildidjqivxnr;iliaqlrqeqrrinjhtehouiqggk
hoijqtinlyq;ilog,ildidjqirehujdqrdibxdhxoictxbinhdjho,iq.qoiv dixcil
ehddeqichouqt,idjqi.hvtldhou,iatlayhouiatlcdialodqgix.qtijqtirslrbxgha
u onleqihodxidjqirqlmiDj ridjqkit rjqg;iqlajibloinhdjibhujdilogiblho
aehouhouidxijhrirqld,idxistq.qodivqhouidxrrqgidxidjqicxlb;ilogidjqidlee
cxtbixciDlrjdquxildidjqirdqqthouixltiatx ajhouilebxrdigx veq,ihoixtgqt
dxivthouigxnoijhriaqodtqixciutl.hdkmiNjxeqiLdelodharilogiSlahchar
rqqbqgislrrqgilridjqkirjxdixoidjqhtinlk,idheeildieqoudjidjqinjleq
rxbqnjldirelayqoqgijhricehujdm

“Jl eiho—jl eiho!”iathqgiRd vvidxidjqivxnrblo!ilog,iclahouitx og
dxnltgridjqinjleq,ileeijlogrivqulois eehouidjqivxldi sidxijhb,injheq
kqdidjqivxldinlrivqhouidxnqgixomiRxxoitlouhoui sivkijhriceloy,iRd vv,
chtbekiselodhouijhriyoqqihoidjqiae brkiaeqld,igltdqgigltdilcdqtigltd
hodxidjqicekhouichrj;ildidjqinxtgixciaxbblog,idjqivxldiledqtoldqek
rdqtohouix dixcidjqinlkixcidjqinjleq’rijxtthveqinleexn,ilogidjqo
tlouhoui sicxtiloxdjqticehoum

Djqitqgidhgqioxnisx tqgictxbileeirhgqrixcidjqibxordqtiehyqivtxxyrigxno
lijheemiJhridxtbqodqgivxgkitxeeqgioxdihoivthoqiv dihoivexxg,injhaj
v vveqgilogirqqdjqgicxtic texourivqjhogihoidjqhtinlyqmiDjqirelodhouir o
selkhoui sxoidjhriathbrxoisxogihoidjqirql,irqodivlayihdritqceqadhxo
hodxiq.qtkiclaq,irxidjldidjqkileeiuexnqgidxiqlajixdjqtiehyqitqgibqom
Logileeidjqinjheq,ifqdilcdqtifqdixcinjhdqirbxyqinlriluxohwhouekirjxd
ctxbidjqirshtlaeqixcidjqinjleq,ilogi.qjqbqodis ccilcdqtis ccictxbidjq
bx djixcidjqiqpahdqgijqlgrblo;ilrildiq.qtkigltd,ijl ehouihoi sxoijhr
atxxyqgieloaqi(vkidjqiehoqilddlajqgidxihd),iRd vvirdtlhujdqoqgihdilulho
logilulho,ivkilicqnitlshgivexnrilulhordidjqiu onleq,idjqoilulhoilog
lulhoirqodihdihodxidjqinjleqm

“S eei s—s eei s!”ijqioxniathqgidxidjqivxnrblo,ilridjqinlohouinjleq
tqelpqgihoijhrintldjmi“S eei s!—aexrqidx!”ilogidjqivxlditlouqgilexou
djqichrj’riceloymiNjqoitqlajhouicltix.qtidjqivxn,iRd vvirexnekiaj toqg
jhriexouirjltsieloaqihodxidjqichrj,ilogiyqsdihdidjqtq,ialtqc eek
aj tohouilogiaj tohou,ilrihcial dhx rekirqqyhouidxicqqeilcdqtirxbqiuxeg
nldajidjldidjqinjleqibhujdijl.qirnleexnqg,iloginjhajijqinlricqltc eixc
vtqlyhouiqtqijqiax egijxxyihdix dmiV didjldiuxeginldajijqirx ujdinlr
djqihooqtbxrdiehcqixcidjqichrjmiLogioxnihdihrirdt ay;icxt,irdltdhou
ctxbijhridtloaqihodxidjldi orsqlylveqidjhouialeeqgijhri“ce ttk,”idjq
bxordqtijxtthvekinleexnqgihoijhrivexxg,ix.qtntlssqgijhbrqeciho
hbsqoqdtlveq,iblg,ivxhehouirstlk,irxidjldidjqihbsqtheeqgiatlcd,
hordlodekigtxsshouilrdqto,ijlgib ajilgxivehogekidxirdt uueqix dictxb
djldisjtqorhqgidnhehujdihodxidjqiaeqltilhtixcidjqiglkm

Logioxnilvldhouihoijhrice ttk,idjqinjleqixoaqibxtqitxeeqgix dihodx
.hqn;ir tuhouictxbirhgqidxirhgq;irslrbxghaleekigheldhouilogiaxodtladhou
jhrirsx d-jxeq,inhdjirjlts,iatlayhou,iluxohwqgitqrshtldhxormiLdielrd,
u rjilcdqtiu rjixciaexddqgitqgiuxtq,ilrihcihdijlgivqqoidjqis tseqieqqr
xcitqginhoq,irjxdihodxidjqicthujdqgilht;ilogicleehouivlayilulho,itlo
gthsshouigxnoijhribxdhxoeqrriceloyrihodxidjqirqlmiJhrijqltdijlgiv trd!

“Jq’rigqlg,iBtmiRd vv,”irlhgiGluuxxm

“Kqr;ivxdjishsqrirbxyqgix d!”iloginhdjgtlnhouijhrixnoictxbijhribx dj,
Rd vviralddqtqgidjqigqlgilrjqrix.qtidjqinldqt;ilog,icxtilibxbqod,irdxxg
djx ujdc eekiqkqhouidjqi.lrdiaxtsrqijqijlgiblgqm


AJLSDQTi62miDjqiGltdm

Linxtgiaxoaqtohouiloihoahgqodihoidjqielrdiajlsdqtm

Laaxtghouidxidjqiho.lthlveqi rluqixcidjqichrjqtk,idjqinjleq-vxldis rjqr
xccictxbidjqirjhs,inhdjidjqijqlgrbloixtinjleq-yheeqtilridqbsxtltk
rdqqtrblo,ilogidjqijltsxxoqqtixtinjleq-clrdqoqtis eehouidjqicxtqbxrd
xlt,idjqixoqiyoxnoilridjqijltsxxoqqt-xltmiOxnihdioqqgrilirdtxou,
oqt.x riltbidxirdthyqidjqichtrdihtxoihodxidjqichrj;icxtixcdqo,ihoinjld
hrialeeqgiliexouigltd,idjqijql.kihbseqbqodijlridxivqice ouidxidjq
ghrdloaqixcidnqodkixtidjhtdkicqqdmiV dijxnq.qtistxexouqgilogiqpjl rdhou
djqiajlrq,idjqijltsxxoqqtihriqpsqadqgidxis eeijhrixltibqlonjheqidxidjq
 ddqtbxrd;ihogqqg,ijqihriqpsqadqgidxirqdiloiqplbseqixcir sqtj blo
ladh.hdkidxidjqitqrd,ioxdixoekivkihoatqghveqitxnhou,iv divkitqsqldqg
ex gilogihodtqshgiqpaelbldhxor;iloginjldihdihridxiyqqsirjx dhouildidjq
dxsixcixoq’riaxbslrr,injheqileeidjqixdjqtib raeqriltqirdtlhoqgilogijlec
rdltdqg—njldidjldihrioxoqiyoxniv didjxrqinjxijl.qidthqgihdmiCxtixoq,iH
alooxdivlnei.qtkijqltdhekiloginxtyi.qtkitqayeqrrekildixoqilogidjqirlbq
dhbqmiHoidjhrirdtlhohou,ivlnehouirdldq,idjqo,inhdjijhrivlayidxidjq
chrj,ileeildixoaqidjqiqpjl rdqgijltsxxoqqtijqltridjqiqpahdhou
atk—“Rdlogi s,ilogiuh.qihdidxijhb!”iJqioxnijlridxigtxsilogirqa tqijhr
xlt,id toitx ogixoijhriaqodtqijlecinlk,irqhwqijhrijltsxxoictxbidjq
atxdaj,iloginhdjinjldiehddeqirdtqoudjiblkitqblho,ijqiqrrlkridxishdajihd
rxbqjxnihodxidjqinjleqmiOxinxogqt,idlyhouidjqinjxeqiceqqdixcinjleqbqo
hoilivxgk,idjldix dixcichcdkiclhtiajloaqricxtiligltd,ioxdich.qiltq
r aaqrrc e;ioxinxogqtidjldirxiblokijlseqrrijltsxxoqqtriltqiblgekia trqg
logighrtldqg;ioxinxogqtidjldirxbqixcidjqbilad leekiv trdidjqht
vexxg-.qrrqerihoidjqivxld;ioxinxogqtidjldirxbqirsqtbinjleqbqoiltq
lvrqodicx tikqltrinhdjicx tivlttqer;ioxinxogqtidjldidxiblokirjhs
xnoqtr,injlehouihriv diliexrhouiaxoaqto;icxtihdihridjqijltsxxoqqtidjld
blyqridjqi.xkluq,ilogihcikx idlyqidjqivtqldjix dixcijhrivxgkijxnialo
kx iqpsqadidxichogihdidjqtqinjqoibxrdinlodqg!

Lulho,ihcidjqigltdivqir aaqrrc e,idjqoildidjqirqaxogiathdhaleihordlod,
djldihr,injqoidjqinjleqirdltdridxit o,idjqivxldjqlgqtilogijltsxxoqqt
ehyqnhrqirdltdidxit oohouicxtqilogilcd,idxidjqihbbhoqodifqxsltgkixc
djqbrqe.qrilogiq.qtkixoqiqerqmiHdihridjqoidjqkiajlouqiselaqr;ilogidjq
jqlgrblo,idjqiajhqcixcchaqtixcidjqiehddeqiatlcd,idlyqrijhristxsqt
rdldhxoihoidjqivxnrixcidjqivxldm

Oxn,iHialtqioxdinjxiblhodlhoridjqiaxodtltk,iv dileeidjhrihrivxdj
cxxehrjilogi ooqaqrrltkmiDjqijqlgrbloirjx egirdlkihoidjqivxnrictxb
chtrdidxielrd;ijqirjx egivxdjigltdidjqijltsxxoilogidjqieloaq,ilogiox
txnhouinjldq.qtirjx egivqiqpsqadqgixcijhb,iqpaqsdi ogqtiahta brdloaqr
xv.hx ridxilokichrjqtblomiHiyoxnidjldidjhrinx egirxbqdhbqriho.xe.qil
rehujdiexrrixcirsqqgihoidjqiajlrq;iv diexouiqpsqthqoaqihoi.lthx r
njleqbqoixcibxtqidjloixoqioldhxoijlriaxo.hoaqgibqidjldihoidjqi.lrd
blfxthdkixciclhe tqrihoidjqichrjqtk,ihdijlrioxdivkilokibqlorivqqoirx
b ajidjqirsqqgixcidjqinjleqilridjqivqcxtqigqrathvqgiqpjl rdhxoixcidjq
jltsxxoqqtidjldijlrial rqgidjqbm

Dxihor tqidjqiutqldqrdiqcchahqoakihoidjqigltd,idjqijltsxxoqqtrixcidjhr
nxtegib rdirdltdidxidjqhticqqdictxbix dixcihgeqoqrr,ilogioxdictxbix d
xcidxhem


AJLSDQTi63miDjqiAtxdajm

X dixcidjqidt oy,idjqivtloajqriutxn;ix dixcidjqb,idjqidnhurmiRx,iho
stxg adh.qir vfqadr,iutxnidjqiajlsdqtrm

Djqiatxdajilee gqgidxixoilistq.hx risluqigqrqt.qrihogqsqogqodibqodhxom
Hdihrilioxdajqgirdhayixcilisqa ehlticxtb,irxbqidnxicqqdihoieqoudj,
njhajihrisqtsqogha eltekihorqtdqgihodxidjqirdltvxltgiu onleqioqltidjq
vxn,icxtidjqis tsxrqixcic tohrjhouilitqrdicxtidjqinxxgqoiqpdtqbhdkixc
djqijltsxxo,injxrqixdjqtiolyqg,ivltvqgiqogirexshouekistxfqadrictxbidjq
stxnmiDjqtqvkidjqinqlsxoihrihordlodekildijlogidxihdrij teqt,injx
roldajqrihdi silritqlghekictxbihdritqrdilrilivlaynxxgrbloirnhourijhr
thceqictxbidjqinleemiHdihria rdxbltkidxijl.qidnxijltsxxoritqsxrhouiho
djqiatxdaj,itqrsqadh.qekialeeqgidjqichtrdilogirqaxogihtxorm

V didjqrqidnxijltsxxor,iqlajivkihdrixnoiaxtg,iltqivxdjiaxooqadqginhdj
djqiehoq;idjqixvfqadivqhouidjhr:idxigltdidjqbivxdj,ihcisxrrhveq,ixoq
hordlodekilcdqtidjqixdjqtihodxidjqirlbqinjleq;irxidjldihc,ihoidjq
axbhouigtlu,ixoqirjx egigtlnix d,idjqixdjqtiblkirdheeitqdlhoilijxegmiHd
hriligx vehouixcidjqiajloaqrmiV dihdi.qtkixcdqoijlssqoridjldixnhouidx
djqihordlodloqx r,i.hxeqod,iaxo. erh.qit oohouixcidjqinjleqi sxo
tqaqh.houidjqichtrdihtxo,ihdivqaxbqrihbsxrrhveqicxtidjqijltsxxoqqt,
jxnq.qtiehujdohou-ehyqihoijhribx.qbqodr,idxishdajidjqirqaxogihtxoihodx
jhbmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,ilridjqirqaxogihtxoihriletqlgkiaxooqadqginhdjidjq
ehoq,ilogidjqiehoqihrit oohou,ijqoaqidjldinqlsxoib rd,ildileeiq.qodr,
vqilodhahsldhouekidxrrqgix dixcidjqivxld,irxbqjxnilogirxbqnjqtq;iqerq
djqibxrdidqtthveqifqxsltgkinx egiho.xe.qileeijlogrmiD bveqgihodxidjq
nldqt,ihdilaaxtghouekihrihoir ajialrqr;idjqirsltqiaxherixcivxpiehoq
(bqodhxoqgihoilistqaqghouiajlsdqt)iblyhouidjhricqld,ihoibxrdihordloaqr,
st gqodekistladhalveqmiV didjhriathdhaleiladihrioxdilenlkri olddqogqg
nhdjidjqirlggqrdilogibxrdicldleialr ledhqrm

C tdjqtbxtq:ikx ib rdiyoxnidjldinjqoidjqirqaxogihtxoihridjtxno
x.qtvxltg,ihdidjqoaqcxtdjivqaxbqriliglouehou,irjlts-qguqgidqttxt,
ryhddhrjekia t.qddhouilvx divxdjivxldiloginjleq,iqodlouehouidjqiehoqr,
xtia ddhouidjqb,ilogiblyhouilistxghuhx rirqorldhxoihoileeightqadhxorm
Oxt,ihoiuqoqtle,ihrihdisxrrhveqidxirqa tqihdilulhoi odheidjqinjleqihr
clhtekialsd tqgilogiliaxtsrqm

Axorhgqt,ioxn,ijxnihdib rdivqihoidjqialrqixcicx tivxldrileeiqouluhou
xoqi o r leekirdtxou,iladh.q,ilogiyoxnhouinjleq;injqoixnhouidxidjqrq
z lehdhqrihoijhb,ilrinqeeilridxidjqidjx rlogiaxoa tthouilaahgqodrixc
r ajiloil glahx riqodqtsthrq,iqhujdixtidqoiexxrqirqaxogihtxoriblkivq
rhb edloqx rekiglouehouilvx dijhbmiCxt,ixciax trq,iqlajivxldihr
r ssehqginhdjirq.qtleijltsxxoridxivqogixoidxidjqiehoqirjx egidjqichtrd
xoqivqihoqccqad leekigltdqginhdjx ditqax.qtkmiLeeidjqrqisltdha eltriltq
clhdjc eekiolttldqgijqtq,ilridjqkinheeioxdiclheidxiqe ahgldqirq.qtle
bxrdihbsxtdlod,ijxnq.qtihodthaldqislrrluqr,ihoiraqoqrijqtqlcdqtidxivq
slhodqgm


AJLSDQTi64miRd vv’riR ssqtm

Rd vv’rinjleqijlgivqqoiyheeqgirxbqighrdloaqictxbidjqirjhsmiHdinlril
aleb;irx,icxtbhouilidlogqbixcidjtqqivxldr,inqiaxbbqoaqgidjqirexn
v rhoqrrixcidxnhouidjqidtxsjkidxidjqiSqz xgmiLogioxn,ilrinqiqhujdqqo
bqoinhdjix tidjhtdk-rhpiltbr,ilogixoqij ogtqgilogiqhujdkidj bvrilog
chouqtr,irexnekidxheqgijx tilcdqtijx ti sxoidjldihoqtd,ire uuhrjiaxtsrq
hoidjqirql;ilogihdirqqbqgijltgekidxiv guqildilee,iqpaqsdildiexou
hodqt.ler;iuxxgiq.hgqoaqinlrijqtqvkic tohrjqgixcidjqiqoxtbx roqrrixc
djqiblrrinqibx.qgmiCxt,i sxoidjqiutqldialoleixciJlou-Jx,ixtinjldq.qt
djqkialeeihd,ihoiAjhol,icx tixtich.qielvxtqtrixoidjqicxxd-sldjinhee
gtlniliv eykictqhujdqgif oyildidjqitldqixcilibheqiloijx t;iv didjhr
utlogiltuxrkinqidxnqgijql.hekicxtuqgilexou,ilrihcielgqoinhdjishu-eqlg
hoiv eym

Gltyoqrrialbqixo;iv didjtqqiehujdri silogigxnoihoidjqiSqz xg’r
blho-thuuhouighbekiu hgqgix tinlk;idheeigtlnhouioqltqtinqirlniLjlv
gtxsshouixoqixcirq.qtleibxtqielodqtorix.qtidjqiv enltyrmi.lalodek
qkqhouidjqijql.houinjleqicxtilibxbqod,ijqihrr qgidjqi r leixtgqtricxt
rqa thouihdicxtidjqiohujd,ilogidjqoijloghouijhrielodqtoidxilirqlblo,
nqodijhrinlkihodxidjqialvho,ilogighgioxdiaxbqicxtnltgilulhoi odhe
bxtohoum

Djx uj,ihoix.qtrqqhouidjqis tr hdixcidjhrinjleq,iAlsdlhoiLjlvijlg
q.hoaqgijhria rdxbltkiladh.hdk,idxialeeihdirx;ikqdioxnidjldidjq
atqld tqinlrigqlg,irxbqi.lu qighrrldhrcladhxo,ixtihbsldhqoaq,ixt
gqrslht,irqqbqginxtyhouihoijhb;ilrihcidjqirhujdixcidjldigqlgivxgk
tqbhogqgijhbidjldiBxvkiGhayinlrikqdidxivqirelho;ilogidjx ujilidjx rlog
xdjqtinjleqrinqtqivtx ujdidxijhrirjhs,ileeidjldinx egioxdixoqifxd
lg.loaqijhriutlog,ibxoxblohlaixvfqadmi.qtkirxxoikx inx egijl.qidjx ujd
ctxbidjqirx ogixoidjqiSqz xg’rigqayr,idjldileeijlogrinqtqistqslthouidx
alrdiloajxtihoidjqigqqs;icxtijql.kiajlhoriltqivqhouigtluuqgilexouidjq
gqay,ilogidjt rditlddehouix dixcidjqisxtd-jxeqrmiV divkidjxrqiaeloyhou
ehoyr,idjqi.lrdiaxtsrqihdrqec,ioxdidjqirjhs,ihridxivqibxxtqgmiDhqgivk
djqijqlgidxidjqirdqto,ilogivkidjqidlheidxidjqivxnr,idjqinjleqioxniehqr
nhdjihdrivelayij eeiaexrqidxidjqi.qrrqe’rilogirqqoidjtx ujidjqigltyoqrr
xcidjqiohujd,injhajixvra tqgidjqirsltrilogithuuhouilexcd,idjqidnx—rjhs
loginjleq,irqqbqgikxyqgidxuqdjqtiehyqiaxexrrleiv eexayr,injqtqxcixoq
tqaehoqrinjheqidjqixdjqtitqblhorirdloghoum*

*LiehddeqihdqbiblkilrinqeeivqitqeldqgijqtqmiDjqirdtxouqrdilogibxrd
tqehlveqijxeginjhajidjqirjhsijlri sxoidjqinjleqinjqoibxxtqgilexourhgq,
hrivkidjqice yqrixtidlhe;ilogilrictxbihdriutqldqtigqorhdkidjldisltdihr
tqeldh.qekijql.hqtidjloilokixdjqti(qpaqsdhouidjqirhgq-chor),ihdr
ceqphvhehdkiq.qoihoigqldj,ial rqrihdidxirhoyiexnivqoqldjidjqir tclaq;
rxidjldinhdjidjqijlogikx ialooxdiuqdildihdictxbidjqivxld,ihoixtgqtidx
s didjqiajlhoitx ogihdmiV didjhrighccha edkihrihouqohx rekix.qtaxbq:il
rblee,irdtxouiehoqihristqsltqginhdjilinxxgqoicexldildihdrix dqtiqog,
logilinqhujdihoihdribhggeq,injheqidjqixdjqtiqogihrirqa tqgidxidjqirjhsm
Vkilgtxhdibloluqbqodidjqinxxgqoicexldihriblgqidxithrqixoidjqixdjqtirhgq
xcidjqiblrr,irxidjldioxnijl.houiuhtgeqgidjqinjleq,idjqiajlhoihritqlghek
blgqidxicxeexnir hd;ilogivqhouirehssqgilexouidjqivxgk,ihrildielrd
exayqgiclrditx ogidjqirbleeqrdisltdixcidjqidlhe,ildidjqisxhodixc
f oadhxoinhdjihdrivtxlgice yqrixtiexvqrm

HcibxxgkiLjlvinlrioxnileeiz hqraqoaq,ildieqlrdirxicltilriax egivqiyoxno
xoigqay,iRd vv,ijhrirqaxogibldq,ice rjqginhdjiaxoz qrd,ivqdtlkqgilo
 o r leiv dirdheeiuxxg-old tqgiqpahdqbqodmiR ajiloi onxodqgiv rdeqinlr
jqihoidjldidjqirdlhgiRdltv ay,ijhrixcchahleir sqthxt,iz hqdekitqrhuoqg
dxijhbicxtidjqidhbqidjqirxeqibloluqbqodixcilcclhtrmiXoqirblee,ijqeshou
al rqixcileeidjhrieh.qehoqrrihoiRd vv,inlrirxxoiblgqirdtlouqek
blohcqrdmiRd vvinlrilijhujieh.qt;ijqinlrirxbqnjldihodqbsqtldqekicxogixc
djqinjleqilrilicel.xthrjidjhouidxijhrisleldqm

“Lirdqly,ilirdqly,iqtqiHireqqs!iKx ,iGluuxx!ix.qtvxltgikx iux,ilogia d
bqixoqictxbijhrirblee!”

Jqtqivqihdiyoxno,idjldidjx ujidjqrqinhegichrjqtbqoigxioxd,ilriliuqoqtle
djhou,ilogilaaxtghouidxidjqiutqldibhehdltkiblphb,iblyqidjqiqoqbkigqctlk
djqia ttqodiqpsqorqrixcidjqinlti(ldieqlrdivqcxtqitqlehwhouidjqistxaqqgr
xcidjqi.xkluq),ikqdioxnilogidjqoikx ichogirxbqixcidjqrqiOlod ayqdqtr
njxijl.qiliuqo hoqitqehrjicxtidjldisltdha eltisltdixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq
gqrhuoldqgivkiRd vv;iaxbsthrhouidjqidlsqthouiqpdtqbhdkixcidjqivxgkm

Lvx dibhgohujdidjldirdqlyinlria dilogiaxxyqg;ilogiehujdqgivkidnx
elodqtorixcirsqtbixhe,iRd vvirdx dekirdxxgi sidxijhrirsqtblaqdhir ssqt
ldidjqialsrdlo-jqlg,ilrihcidjldialsrdloinqtqilirhgqvxltgmiOxtinlriRd vv
djqixoekivloz qdqtixoinjleq’riceqrjidjldiohujdmiBhouehouidjqht
b bvehourinhdjijhrixnoiblrdhaldhxor,idjx rlogrixoidjx rlogrixcirjltyr,
rnltbhouitx ogidjqigqlgieq.hldjlo,irblayhouekicqlrdqgixoihdricldoqrrm
Djqicqnireqqsqtrivqexnihoidjqhtiv oyrinqtqixcdqoirdltdeqgivkidjqirjlts
relsshouixcidjqhtidlherilulhordidjqij ee,inhdjhoilicqnihoajqrixcidjq
reqqsqtr’ijqltdrmiSqqthouix.qtidjqirhgqikx iax egif rdirqqidjqbi(lr
vqcxtqikx ijqltgidjqb)inleexnhouihoidjqir eeqo,ivelayinldqtr,ilog
d tohouix.qtixoidjqhtivlayrilridjqkiraxxsqgix dij uqiuexv eltishqaqrixc
djqinjleqixcidjqivhuoqrrixcilij bloijqlgmiDjhrisltdha elticqldixcidjq
rjltyirqqbrileeiv dibhtla ex rmiJxnildir ajiloilssltqodeki olrrlhelveq
r tclaq,idjqkiaxodth.qidxiux uqix dir ajirkbbqdthaleibx djc er,itqblhor
lisltdixcidjqi oh.qtrleistxveqbixcileeidjhourmiDjqibltyidjqkidj rieql.q
xoidjqinjleq,iblkivqrdivqiehyqoqgidxidjqijxeexniblgqivkilialtsqodqtiho
ax odqtrhoyhouicxtiliratqnm

Djx ujilbhgileeidjqirbxyhouijxttxtilogighlvxehrbixcilirql-chujd,irjltyr
nheeivqirqqoiexouhouekiulwhoui sidxidjqirjhs’rigqayr,iehyqij outkigxur
tx ogilidlveqinjqtqitqgibqldihrivqhouialt.qg,itqlgkidxivxedigxnoiq.qtk
yheeqgibloidjldihridxrrqgidxidjqb;ilogidjx uj,injheqidjqi.lehlod
v dajqtrix.qtidjqigqay-dlveqiltqidj rialoohvleekialt.houiqlajixdjqt’r
eh.qibqldinhdjialt.hou-yoh.qrileeiuhegqgilogidlrrqeeqg,idjqirjltyr,
lerx,inhdjidjqhtifqnqe-jhedqgibx djr,iltqiz lttqerxbqekialt.houilnlk
 ogqtidjqidlveqildidjqigqlgibqld;ilogidjx uj,inqtqikx idxid toidjq
njxeqilcclhti srhgqigxno,ihdinx egirdheeivqistqddkib ajidjqirlbqidjhou,
djldihridxirlk,ilirjxayhouirjltyhrjiv rhoqrriqox ujicxtileeisltdhqr;
logidjx ujirjltyrilerxiltqidjqiho.lthlveqix dthgqtrixcileeirel.qirjhsr
atxrrhouidjqiLdelodha,irkrdqbldhaleekidtxddhouilexourhgq,idxivqijlogk
hoialrqilisltaqeihridxivqialtthqgiloknjqtq,ixtiligqlgirel.qidxivq
gqaqodekiv thqg;ilogidjx ujixoqixtidnxixdjqtiehyqihordloaqribhujdivq
rqdigxno,idx ajhouidjqirqdidqtbr,iselaqr,ilogixaalrhxor,injqoirjltyrigx
bxrdirxahleekiaxoutquldq,ilogibxrdijhelthx rekicqlrd;ikqdihridjqtqiox
axoaqh.lveqidhbqixtixaalrhxoinjqoikx inheeichogidjqbihoir ajiax odeqrr
o bvqtr,ilogihoiulkqtixtibxtqifx.hleirshthdr,idjloiltx ogiligqlgirsqtb
njleq,ibxxtqgivkiohujdidxilinjleqrjhsildirqlmiHcikx ijl.qioq.qtirqqo
djldirhujd,idjqoir rsqogikx tigqahrhxoilvx didjqistxsthqdkixc
gq.he-nxtrjhs,ilogidjqiqpsqghqoakixciaxoahehldhouidjqigq.hem

V d,ilrikqd,iRd vvijqqgqgioxdidjqib bvehourixcidjqivloz qdidjldinlr
uxhouixoirxiohujijhb,ioxibxtqidjloidjqirjltyrijqqgqgidjqirblayhouixc
jhrixnoiqsha tqloiehsrm

“Axxy,iaxxy!—njqtq’ridjldixegiCeqqaq?”ijqiathqgildieqoudj,inhgqohouijhr
equrirdheeic tdjqt,ilrihcidxicxtbilibxtqirqa tqivlrqicxtijhrir ssqt;
log,ildidjqirlbqidhbqigltdhouijhricxtyihodxidjqighrj,ilrihcirdlvvhou
nhdjijhrieloaq;i“axxy,ikx iaxxy!—rlheidjhrinlk,iaxxy!”

Djqixegivelay,ioxdihoiloki.qtkijhujiueqqildijl.houivqqoistq.hx rek
tx rqgictxbijhrinltbijlbbxayildilibxrdi orqlrxolveqijx t,ialbq
rjlbvehouilexouictxbijhriuleeqk,icxt,iehyqiblokixegivelayr,idjqtqinlr
rxbqdjhouidjqiblddqtinhdjijhriyoqq-slor,injhajijqighgioxdiyqqsinqee
rax tqgiehyqijhrixdjqtislor;idjhrixegiCeqqaq,ilridjqkialeeqgijhb,ialbq
rj ccehouilogiehbshouilexou,ilrrhrdhouijhrirdqsinhdjijhridxour,injhaj,
lcdqtiliae brkiclrjhxo,inqtqiblgqixcirdtlhujdqoqgihtxoijxxsr;idjhrixeg
Qvxokicex ogqtqgilexou,ilogihoixvqghqoaqidxidjqinxtgixciaxbblog,ialbq
dxiligqlgirdxsixoidjqixssxrhdqirhgqixciRd vv’rirhgqvxltg;injqo,inhdj
vxdjijlogricxegqgivqcxtqijhb,ilogitqrdhouixoijhridnx-equuqgialoq,ijq
vxnqgijhriltajqgivlayirdheeic tdjqtix.qt,ildidjqirlbqidhbqirhgqnlkr
hoaehohouijhrijqlg,irxilridxivthouijhrivqrdiqltihodxiselkm

“Axxy,”irlhgiRd vv,itlshgekiehcdhouilitldjqtitqgghrjibxtrqeidxijhr
bx dj,i“gxo’dikx idjhoyidjhrirdqlyihritldjqtix.qtgxoq?iKx ’.qivqqo
vqldhouidjhrirdqlyidxxib aj,iaxxy;ihd’ridxxidqogqtmiGxo’diHilenlkrirlk
djldidxivqiuxxg,ilinjleq-rdqlyib rdivqidx uj?iDjqtqiltqidjxrqirjltyr
oxnix.qtidjqirhgq,igxo’dikx irqqidjqkistqcqtihdidx ujilogitltq?iNjldil
rjhogkidjqkiltqiyhayhoui s!iAxxy,iuxilogidleyidxi’qb;idqeei’qbidjqkiltq
nqeaxbqidxijqesidjqbrqe.qriah.heek,ilogihoibxgqtldhxo,iv didjqkib rd
yqqsiz hqdmiVelrdibq,ihciHialoijqltibkixnoi.xhaqmiLnlk,iaxxy,ilog
gqeh.qtibkibqrrluqmiJqtq,idlyqidjhrielodqto,”iroldajhouixoqictxbijhr
rhgqvxltg;i“oxnidjqo,iuxilogistqlajidxi’qb!”

R eeqoekidlyhouidjqixccqtqgielodqto,ixegiCeqqaqiehbsqgilatxrridjqigqay
dxidjqiv enltyr;ilogidjqo,inhdjixoqijlogigtxsshouijhriehujdiexnix.qt
djqirql,irxilridxiuqdiliuxxgi.hqnixcijhriaxoutquldhxo,inhdjidjqixdjqt
jlogijqirxeqboekicex thrjqgijhridxour,ilogieqlohouicltix.qtidjqirhgqiho
lib bvehoui.xhaqivquloilggtqrrhouidjqirjltyr,injheqiRd vv,irxcdek
atlnehouivqjhog,ix.qtjqltgileeidjldinlrirlhgm

“Cqeexn-athddqtr:iH’rqixtgqtqgijqtqidxirlkigldikx ib rdirdxsigldiglb
oxhrqigltqmiKx ijqlt?iRdxsigldiglbirblayho’ixvigqiehs!iBlrrliRd vvirlk
gldikx ialoicheeikx tiglbivqeehqri sidxigqijldajhour,iv divkiUxt!ikx 
b rdirdxsigldiglbitlayqd!”

“Axxy,”ijqtqihodqtsxrqgiRd vv,ilaaxbslokhouidjqinxtginhdjilir ggqoirels
xoidjqirjx egqt,—“Axxy!injk,iglboikx tiqkqr,ikx ib rdo’dirnqltidjldinlk
njqoikx ’tqistqlajhoumiDjld’rioxinlkidxiaxo.qtdirhooqtr,iaxxy!”

“Njxigld?iGqoistqlajidxijhbikx trqec,”ir eeqoekid tohouidxiuxm

“Ox,iaxxy;iuxixo,iuxixom”

“Nqee,igqo,iVqe vqgicqeexn-athddqtr:”—

“Thujd!”iqpaelhbqgiRd vv,ilsstx.houek,i“axlpi’qbidxihd;idtkidjld,”ilog
Ceqqaqiaxodho qgm

“Gxikx ihrileeirjltyr,ilogivkiold tinqtkinxtlahx r,ikqdiHiwlkidxikx ,
cqeexn-athddqtr,igldigldinxtlahx roqrr—’dxsigldiglbirelssho’ixvigq
dlhe!iJxnikx idhoyidxijqlt,irsxrqikx iyqqsi sir ajiliglbirelssho’ilog
vhdho’igltq?”

“Axxy,”iathqgiRd vv,iaxeelthouijhb,i“Hinxo’dijl.qidjldirnqlthoumiDley
dxi’qbiuqodeqbloekm”

Xoaqibxtqidjqirqtbxoistxaqqgqgm

“Kx tinxtlahx roqrr,icqeexn-athddqtr,iHigxo’divelbqikqirxib ajicxt;igld
hriold t,ilogialo’divqijqesqg;iv didxiuxvqtoigldinhayqgiold t,igldihr
gqishodmiKx ihrirjltyr,irltdho;iv dihcikx iuxvqtoigqirjltyihoikx ,injk
gqoikx ivqilouqe;icxtileeilouqeihrioxd’houibxtqigloigqirjltyinqee
uxvqtoqgmiOxn,iexxyijqtq,ivtqg’tqo,if rdidtkinxordidxivqiahvhe,il
jqeshouikx trqevrictxbigldinjleqmiGxo’divqidqltho’igqive vvqtix dikx t
oqhujvx t’ribx d,iHirlkmiHrioxdixoqirjltyigxxgithujdilridxgqtidxigld
njleq?iLog,ivkiUxt,ioxoqixoikx ijlrigqithujdidxigldinjleq;igldinjleq
vqexouidxirxbqixoqiqerqmiHiyoxnirxbqix’ikx ijlrivqttkivthuibx d,
vthuuqtigloixgqtr;iv digqoigqivthuibx drirxbqdhbqrijlrigqirblee
vqeehqr;irxigldigqivthuoqrrixcigqibx dihrioxdidxirnleeqtinhg,iv didx
vhdixccigqive vvqticxtigqirbleeictkixvirjltyr,igldialo’diuqdihodxigq
ratx uqidxijqesigqbrqe.qrm”

“Nqeeigxoq,ixegiCeqqaq!”iathqgiRd vv,i“djld’riAjthrdhlohdk;iuxixom”

“Oxi rqiuxho’ixo;igqiglbinheelhorinheeiyqqsilirax uho’ilogirelssho’
qlajixgqt,iBlrrliRd vv;igqkigxo’dijqltixoqinxtg;ioxi rqil-stqlajho’idx
r ajiglbiu’ ddxorilrikx ialeei’qb,idheeigltqivqeehqrihric ee,ilogigltq
vqeehqrihrivxddxbeqrr;iloginjqoigqkigxiuqdi’qbic ee,igqkinxodijqltikx 
gqo;icxtigqoigqkirhoyihoigqirql,iuxiclrdidxireqqsixoigqiaxtle,ilog
alo’dijqltioxd’houildilee,ioxibxtq,icxtiqvqtilogiqvqtm”

“ sxoibkirx e,iHilbilvx dixcidjqirlbqixshohxo;irxiuh.qidjqivqoqghadhxo,
Ceqqaq,ilogiH’eeilnlkidxibkir ssqtm”

 sxoidjhr,iCeqqaq,ijxeghouivxdjijlogrix.qtidjqichrjkibxv,itlhrqgijhr
rjtheei.xhaq,ilogiathqg—

“A rrqgicqeexn-athddqtr!iYhayi sigqiglbogqrditxnilriq.qtikx ialo;ichee
kx tiglb’ivqeehqri’dheeigqkiv rd—logigqoighqm”

“Oxn,iaxxy,”irlhgiRd vv,itqr bhouijhrir ssqtildidjqialsrdlo;i“rdlog
f rdinjqtqikx irdxxgivqcxtq,idjqtq,ix.qtilulhordibq,ilogislkisltdha elt
lddqodhxom”

“Leeigqodhxo,”irlhgiCeqqaq,ilulhoirdxxshouix.qti sxoijhridxourihoidjq
gqrhtqgisxrhdhxom

“Nqee,”irlhgiRd vv,ijqeshouijhbrqecictqqekibqlonjheq;i“Hirjleeioxniux
vlayidxidjqir vfqadixcidjhrirdqlymiHoidjqichtrdiselaq,ijxnixegiltqikx ,
axxy?”

“Njldigldigxinhgigqi’dqly,”irlhgidjqixegivelay,idqrdhekm

“Rheqoaq!iJxnixegiltqikx ,iaxxy?”

“’Vx diohoqdk,igqkirlk,”ijqiuexxbhekib ddqtqgm

“Logikx ijl.qieh.qgihoidjhrinxtegijltgi sxoixoqij ogtqgikqltr,iaxxy,
logigxo’diyoxnikqdijxnidxiaxxyilinjleq-rdqly?”itlshgekivxedhouiloxdjqt
bx djc eildidjqielrdinxtg,irxidjldibxtrqeirqqbqgiliaxodho ldhxoixcidjq
z qrdhxomi“Njqtqinqtqikx ivxto,iaxxy?”

“’Jhogigqijldajnlk,ihoicqttk-vxld,iuxho’ixvqtigqiTxloxyqm”

“Vxtoihoilicqttk-vxld!iDjld’riz qqt,idxxmiV diHinlodidxiyoxninjld
ax odtkikx inqtqivxtoiho,iaxxy!”

“Ghgo’diHirlkigqiTxloxyqiax odtk?”ijqiathqgirjltsekm

“Ox,ikx ighgo’d,iaxxy;iv diH’eeidqeeikx injldiH’biaxbhouidx,iaxxymiKx 
b rdiuxijxbqilogivqivxtoix.qtilulho;ikx igxo’diyoxnijxnidxiaxxyil
njleq-rdqlyikqdm”

“Vtqrribkirx e,ihciHiaxxyioxgqtixoq,”ijqiutxneqg,ilouthek,id tohou
tx ogidxigqsltdm

“Axbqivlay,iaxxy;—jqtq,ijlogibqidjxrqidxour;—oxnidlyqidjldivhdixcirdqly
djqtq,ilogidqeeibqihcikx idjhoyidjldirdqlyiaxxyqgilrihdirjx egivq?iDlyq
hd,iHirlk”—jxeghouidjqidxouridxnltgrijhb—“dlyqihd,ilogidlrdqihdm”

Clhodekirblayhouijhrinhdjqtqgiehsrix.qtihdicxtilibxbqod,idjqixegioqutx
b ddqtqg,i“Vqrdiaxxyqgi’dqlyiHiqvqtidlrdq;ifxxrk,ivqttkifxxrkm”

“Axxy,”irlhgiRd vv,irz lthouijhbrqecixoaqibxtq;i“gxikx ivqexouidxidjq
aj taj?”

“SlrrqgixoqixoaqihoiAlsq-Gxno,”irlhgidjqixegibloir eeqoekm

“Logikx ijl.qixoaqihoikx tiehcqislrrqgilijxekiaj tajihoiAlsq-Dxno,
njqtqikx igx vdeqrrix.qtjqltgilijxekisltrxoilggtqrrhouijhrijqltqtrilr
jhrivqex.qgicqeexn-atqld tqr,ijl.qikx ,iaxxy!iLogikqdikx iaxbqijqtq,
logidqeeibqir ajiligtqlgc eiehqilrikx ighgif rdioxn,iqj?”irlhgiRd vvm
“Njqtqigxikx iqpsqadidxiuxidx,iaxxy?”

“Uxidxivqgivqttkirxxo,”ijqib bveqg,ijlec-d tohouilrijqirsxyqm

“L.lrd!ijql.qidx!iHibqloinjqoikx ighq,iaxxymiHd’riloilnc eiz qrdhxom
Oxninjld’rikx tilornqt?”

“Njqoighrixegivtlayibloighqr,”irlhgidjqioqutxirexnek,iajlouhouijhr
njxeqilhtilogigqbqloxt,i“jqijhrrqecinxo’diuxioxnjqtq;iv dirxbqivtqrrqg
louqeinheeiaxbqilogicqdajijhbm”

“Cqdajijhb?iJxn?iHoiliaxlajilogicx t,ilridjqkicqdajqgiQehflj?iLogicqdaj
jhbinjqtq?”

“ sigqtq,”irlhgiCeqqaq,ijxeghouijhridxourirdtlhujdix.qtijhrijqlg,ilog
yqqshouihdidjqtqi.qtkirxeqboekm

“Rx,idjqo,ikx iqpsqadidxiuxi sihodxix tiblho-dxs,igxikx ,iaxxy,injqo
kx iltqigqlg?iV digxo’dikx iyoxnidjqijhujqtikx iaehbv,idjqiaxegqtihd
uqdr?iBlho-dxs,iqj?”

“Ghgo’dirlkigldid’lee,”irlhgiCeqqaq,ilulhoihoidjqir eyrm

“Kx irlhgi sidjqtq,ighgo’dikx ?ilogioxniexxyikx trqec,ilogirqqinjqtq
kx tidxouriltqisxhodhoumiV d,isqtjlsrikx iqpsqadidxiuqdihodxijql.qoivk
atlnehouidjtx ujidjqie vvqt’rijxeq,iaxxy;iv d,iox,iox,iaxxy,ikx igxo’d
uqdidjqtq,iqpaqsdikx iuxidjqitqu eltinlk,itx ogivkidjqithuuhoumiHd’ril
dhayehrjiv rhoqrr,iv dib rdivqigxoq,ixtiqerqihd’rioxiuxmiV dioxoqixci r
ltqihoijql.qoikqdmiGtxsikx tidxour,iaxxy,ilogijqltibkixtgqtrmiGxikq
jqlt?iJxegikx tijldihoixoqijlog,ilogiaelsid’xdjqtil’dxsixcikx tijqltd,
njqoiH’biuh.houibkixtgqtr,iaxxymiNjld!idjldikx tijqltd,idjqtq?—djld’r
kx tiuhwwltg!iLexcd!ilexcd!—djld’rihd—oxnikx ijl.qihdmiJxegihdidjqtq
oxn,ilogislkilddqodhxom”

“Leei’gqodhxo,”irlhgidjqixegivelay,inhdjivxdjijlogriselaqgilrigqrhtqg,
.lhoekinthuuehouijhriuthwweqgijqlg,ilrihcidxiuqdivxdjiqltrihoictxodild
xoqilogidjqirlbqidhbqm

“Nqeeidjqo,iaxxy,ikx irqqidjhrinjleq-rdqlyixcikx trinlrirxi.qtkivlg,
djldiHijl.qis dihdix dixcirhujdilrirxxoilrisxrrhveq;ikx irqqidjld,
gxo’dikx ?iNqee,icxtidjqic d tq,injqoikx iaxxyiloxdjqtinjleq-rdqlyicxt
bkisth.ldqidlveqijqtq,idjqialsrdlo,iH’eeidqeeikx injldidxigxirxilrioxd
dxirsxheihdivkix.qtgxhoumiJxegidjqirdqlyihoixoqijlog,ilogirjxnilieh.q
axleidxihdinhdjidjqixdjqt;idjldigxoq,ighrjihd;ig’kqijqlt?iLogioxn
dx-bxttxn,iaxxy,injqoinqiltqia ddhouihoidjqichrj,ivqir tqikx irdlogivk
dxiuqdidjqidhsrixcijhrichor;ijl.qidjqbis dihoishayeqmiLricxtidjqiqogr
xcidjqice yqr,ijl.qidjqbirx rqg,iaxxymiDjqtq,ioxnikqiblkiuxm”

V diCeqqaqijlgijltgekiuxdidjtqqislaqrixcc,injqoijqinlritqaleeqgm

“Axxy,iuh.qibqia deqdricxtir ssqtidx-bxttxniohujdihoidjqibhg-nldajm
G’kqijqlt?ilnlkikx irlhe,idjqom—Jleexl!irdxs!iblyqilivxnivqcxtqikx 
uxm—L.lrdijql.houilulho!iNjleq-vleericxtivtqlyclrd—gxo’dicxtuqdm”

“Nhrj,ivkiuxt!injleqiqldijhb,i’rdqlgixcijhbiqldinjleqmiH’bivtqrrqgihc
jqilho’dibxtqixcirjltyigloiBlrrliRjltyijhrrqec,”ib ddqtqgidjqixegiblo,
ehbshouilnlk;inhdjinjhajirluqiqfla eldhxoijqinqodidxijhrijlbbxaym


AJLSDQTi65miDjqiNjleqilriliGhrjm

Djldibxtdleibloirjx egicqqgi sxoidjqiatqld tqidjldicqqgrijhrielbs,ilog,
ehyqiRd vv,iqldijhbivkijhrixnoiehujd,ilrikx iblkirlk;idjhrirqqbrirx
x deloghrjilidjhouidjldixoqib rdioqqgriuxiliehddeqihodxidjqijhrdxtkilog
sjhexrxsjkixcihdm

Hdihri sxoitqaxtg,idjldidjtqqiaqod thqriluxidjqidxou qixcidjqiThujd
NjleqinlriqrdqqbqgiliutqldigqehalakihoiCtloaq,ilogiaxbblogqgieltuq
sthaqridjqtqmiLerx,idjldihoiJqotki.HHHdj’ridhbq,iliaqtdlhoiaxxyixcidjq
ax tdixvdlhoqgilijlogrxbqitqnltgicxtiho.qodhouiloilgbhtlveqirl aqidxivq
qldqoinhdjivltvla qgisxtsxhrqr,injhaj,ikx itqbqbvqt,iltqilirsqahqrixc
njleqmiSxtsxhrqr,ihogqqg,iltqidxidjhriglkiaxorhgqtqgichoqiqldhoumiDjq
bqldihriblgqihodxivleerilvx didjqirhwqixcivheehltgivleer,ilogivqhou
nqeeirqlrxoqgilogirshaqgibhujdivqidlyqoicxtid tdeq-vleerixti.qleivleerm
DjqixegibxoyrixciG ocqtbehoqinqtqi.qtkicxogixcidjqbmiDjqkijlgiliutqld
sxtsxhrqiutlodictxbidjqiatxnom

Djqicladihr,idjldilbxouijhrij odqtrildieqlrd,idjqinjleqinx egivkilee
jlogrivqiaxorhgqtqgilioxveqighrj,inqtqidjqtqioxdirxib ajixcijhb;iv d
njqoikx iaxbqidxirhdigxnoivqcxtqilibqld-shqioqltekixoqij ogtqgicqqd
exou,ihdidlyqrilnlkikx tilssqdhdqmiXoekidjqibxrdi ostqf ghaqgixcibqo
ehyqiRd vv,ioxnlglkrisltdlyqixciaxxyqginjleqr;iv didjqiQrz hbl piltq
oxdirxiclrdhghx rmiNqileeiyoxnijxnidjqkieh.qi sxoinjleqr,ilogijl.qitltq
xegi.hodluqrixcisthbqixegidtlhoixhemiWxutlogl,ixoqixcidjqhtibxrdiclbx r
gxadxtr,itqaxbbqogrirdthsrixcive vvqticxtihoclodr,ilrivqhouiqpaqqghouek
f hakilogiox thrjhoumiLogidjhritqbhogribqidjldiaqtdlhoiQouehrjbqo,injx
exouiluxinqtqilaahgqodleekieqcdihoiUtqqoelogivkilinjlehoui.qrrqe—djld
djqrqibqoilad leekieh.qgicxtirq.qtleibxodjrixoidjqibx egkiratlsrixc
njleqrinjhajijlgivqqoieqcdilrjxtqilcdqtidtkhouix didjqive vvqtmiLbxou
djqiG dajinjleqbqoidjqrqiratlsriltqialeeqgi“cthddqtr”;injhaj,ihogqqg,
djqkiutqldekitqrqbveq,ivqhouivtxnoilogiathrs,ilogirbqeehouirxbqdjhou
ehyqixegiLbrdqtglbijx rqnh.qr’igx uj-o drixtixek-axxyr,injqoictqrjm
Djqkijl.qir ajiloiqldlveqiexxyidjldidjqibxrdirqec-gqokhouirdtlouqtialo
jltgekiyqqsijhrijlogrixccm

V dinjldic tdjqtigqstqahldqridjqinjleqilriliah.hehwqgighrj,ihrijhr
qpaqqghouithajoqrrmiJqihridjqiutqldisthwqixpixcidjqirql,idxxicldidxivq
gqehaldqekiuxxgmiExxyildijhrij bs,injhajinx egivqilrichoqiqldhouilridjq
v cclex’ri(njhajihriqrdqqbqgilitltqighrj),inqtqihdioxdir ajilirxehg
sktlbhgixcicldmiV didjqirsqtblaqdhihdrqec,ijxnivelogilogiatqlbkidjld
hr;iehyqidjqidtlorsltqod,ijlec-fqeehqg,injhdqibqldixciliaxaxlo dihoidjq
djhtgibxodjixcihdriutxndj,ikqdicltidxxithajidxir ssekilir vrdhd dqicxt
v ddqtmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,iblokinjleqbqoijl.qilibqdjxgixcilvrxtvhouihdihodx
rxbqixdjqtir vrdloaq,ilogidjqoisltdlyhouixcihdmiHoidjqiexouidtkinldajqr
xcidjqiohujdihdihriliaxbbxoidjhouicxtidjqirqlbqoidxighsidjqht
rjhs-vhra hdihodxidjqij uqixhe-sxdrilogieqdidjqbictkidjqtqilnjheqmiBlok
liuxxgir ssqtijl.qiHidj riblgqm

HoidjqialrqixcilirbleeiRsqtbiNjleqidjqivtlhoriltqilaax odqgilichoq
ghrjmiDjqialryqdixcidjqiry eeihrivtxyqoihodxinhdjiloilpq,ilogidjqidnx
se bs,injhdhrjiexvqrivqhouinhdjgtlnoi(stqahrqekitqrqbvehouidnxieltuq
s gghour),idjqkiltqidjqoibhpqginhdjicex t,ilogiaxxyqgihodxilibxrd
gqeqadlveqibqrr,ihoicel.xtirxbqnjlditqrqbvehouiale.qr’ijqlg,injhajihr
z hdqilighrjilbxouirxbqiqsha tqr;ilogiq.qtkixoqiyoxnridjldirxbqikx ou
v ayrilbxouidjqiqsha tqr,ivkiaxodho leekighohoui sxoiale.qr’ivtlhor,ivk
logivkiuqdidxijl.qiliehddeqivtlhorixcidjqhtixno,irxilridxivqilveqidx
dqeeilialec’rijqlgictxbidjqhtixnoijqlgr;injhaj,ihogqqg,itqz htqr
 oaxbbxoighrathbholdhxomiLogidjldihridjqitqlrxoinjkilikx ouiv ayinhdj
loihodqeehuqodiexxyhouialec’rijqlgivqcxtqijhb,ihrirxbqjxnixoqixcidjq
rlggqrdirhujdrikx ialoirqqmiDjqijqlgiexxyrilirxtdixcitqstxlajc eekild
jhb,inhdjiloi“Qdid iVt dq!”iqpstqrrhxom

Hdihrioxd,isqtjlsr,iqodhtqekivqal rqidjqinjleqihrirxiqpaqrrh.qek
 oad x ridjldielogrbqoirqqbidxitqultgidjqiqldhouixcijhbinhdj
lvjxttqoaq;idjldilssqltridxitqr ed,ihoirxbqinlk,ictxbidjqiaxorhgqtldhxo
vqcxtqibqodhxoqg:i_hmqm_idjldilibloirjx egiqldilioqnekib tgqtqgidjhou
xcidjqirql,ilogiqldihdidxxivkihdrixnoiehujdmiV dioxigx vdidjqichtrdiblo
djldiq.qtib tgqtqgiloixpinlritqultgqgilrilib tgqtqt;isqtjlsrijqinlr
j ou;ilogihcijqijlgivqqois dixoijhridthleivkixpqo,ijqiaqtdlhoekinx eg
jl.qivqqo;ilogijqiaqtdlhoekigqrqt.qgihdihcilokib tgqtqtigxqrmiUxidxidjq
bqld-bltyqdixciliRld tglkiohujdilogirqqidjqiatxngrixcieh.qivhsqgr
rdlthoui sildidjqiexouitxnrixcigqlgiz lgt sqgrmiGxqrioxdidjldirhujd
dlyqilidxxdjix dixcidjqialoohvle’rifln?iAloohvler?injxihrioxdil
aloohvle?iHidqeeikx ihdinheeivqibxtqidxeqtlveqicxtidjqiCqfqqidjld
rledqgigxnoilieqloibhrrhxoltkihoijhriaqeeltilulhordiliaxbhouiclbhoq;ihd
nheeivqibxtqidxeqtlveqicxtidjldistx.hgqodiCqfqq,iHirlk,ihoidjqiglkixc
f gubqod,idjloicxtidjqq,iah.hehwqgilogiqoehujdqoqgiux tblog,injx
olheqrdiuqqrqidxidjqiutx ogilogicqlrdqrdixoidjqhtivexldqgieh.qtrihoidjk
sldé-gq-cxhq-utlrm

V diRd vv,ijqiqldridjqinjleqivkihdrixnoiehujd,igxqrijq?ilogidjldihr
lgghouihor edidxihof tk,ihrihd?iExxyildikx tiyohcq-jlogeq,idjqtq,ibk
ah.hehwqgilogiqoehujdqoqgiux tblogighohouixccidjlditxlrdivqqc,injldihr
djldijlogeqiblgqixc?—njldiv didjqivxoqrixcidjqivtxdjqtixcidjqi.qtkixp
kx iltqiqldhou?iLoginjldigxikx ishayikx tidqqdjinhdj,ilcdqtigq.x thou
djldicldiuxxrq?iNhdjilicqldjqtixcidjqirlbqicxnemiLoginhdjinjldiz hee
ghgidjqiRqatqdltkixcidjqiRxahqdkicxtidjqiR sstqrrhxoixciAt qedkidx
Ulogqtricxtbleekihoghdqijhriahta eltr?iHdihrixoekinhdjhoidjqielrdibxodj
xtidnxidjldidjldirxahqdkislrrqgilitqrxe dhxoidxisldtxohwqioxdjhouiv d
rdqqeisqorm


AJLSDQTi66miDjqiRjltyiBlrrlatqm

NjqoihoidjqiRx djqtoiChrjqtk,ilialsd tqgiRsqtbiNjleq,ilcdqtiexouilog
nqltkidxhe,ihrivtx ujdilexourhgqieldqildiohujd,ihdihrioxd,ilriliuqoqtle
djhouildieqlrd,ia rdxbltkidxistxaqqgildixoaqidxidjqiv rhoqrrixcia ddhou
jhbihomiCxtidjldiv rhoqrrihriloiqpaqqghouekielvxthx rixoq;ihrioxdi.qtk
rxxoiaxbseqdqg;ilogitqz htqrileeijlogridxirqdilvx dihdmiDjqtqcxtq,idjq
axbbxoi rluqihridxidlyqihoileeirlhe;ielrjidjqijqebil’eqq;ilogidjqoirqog
q.qtkixoqivqexnidxijhrijlbbxayidheeiglkehujd,inhdjidjqitqrqt.ldhxo
djld,i odheidjldidhbq,iloajxt-nldajqrirjleeivqiyqsd;idjldihr,idnxilog
dnxicxtiloijx t,iqlajiax seq,idjqiatqnihoitxdldhxoirjleeibx odidjqigqay
dxirqqidjldileeiuxqrinqeem

V dirxbqdhbqr,iqrsqahleeki sxoidjqiEhoqihoidjqiSlahcha,idjhriseloinhee
oxdilornqtildilee;ivqal rqir ajihoalea elveqijxrdrixcirjltyriuldjqt
tx ogidjqibxxtqgialtalrq,idjldinqtqijqieqcdirxicxtirhpijx tr,irlk,ixoil
rdtqdaj,iehddeqibxtqidjloidjqiryqeqdxoinx egivqi.hrhveqivkibxtohoumiHo
bxrdixdjqtisltdrixcidjqixaqlo,ijxnq.qt,injqtqidjqrqichrjigxioxdirx
eltuqekilvx og,idjqhtinxogtx ri.xtlahdkialoivqildidhbqriaxorhgqtlvek
ghbhohrjqg,ivki.huxtx rekirdhtthouidjqbi sinhdjirjltsinjlehou-rslgqr,il
stxaqg tqioxdnhdjrdloghou,injhaj,ihoirxbqihordloaqr,ixoekirqqbridx
dhayeqidjqbihodxirdheeiutqldqtiladh.hdkmiV dihdinlrioxdidj rihoidjq
stqrqodialrqinhdjidjqiSqz xg’rirjltyr;idjx uj,idxivqir tq,ilokiblo
 olaa rdxbqgidxir ajirhujdr,idxijl.qiexxyqgix.qtijqtirhgqidjldiohujd,
nx egijl.qilebxrdidjx ujdidjqinjxeqitx ogirqlinlrixoqij uqiajqqrq,ilog
djxrqirjltyridjqibluuxdrihoihdm

Oq.qtdjqeqrr,i sxoiRd vvirqddhouidjqiloajxt-nldajilcdqtijhrir ssqtinlr
axoae gqg;iloginjqo,ilaaxtghouek,iZ qqz quilogilicxtqalrdeqirqlbloialbq
xoigqay,ioxirbleeiqpahdqbqodinlriatqldqgilbxouidjqirjltyr;icxt
hbbqghldqekir rsqoghouidjqia ddhouirdluqrix.qtidjqirhgq,ilogiexnqthou
djtqqielodqtor,irxidjldidjqkialrdiexouiueqlbrixciehujdix.qtidjqid tvhg
rql,idjqrqidnxiblthoqtr,igltdhouidjqhtiexouinjlehou-rslgqr,iyqsdi silo
hoaqrrlodib tgqthouixcidjqirjltyr,*ivkirdthyhouidjqiyqqoirdqqeigqqs
hodxidjqhtiry eer,irqqbhouekidjqhtixoeki.hdleisltdmiV dihoidjqicxlbk
axoc rhxoixcidjqhtibhpqgilogirdt uuehouijxrdr,idjqibltyrbqoiax egioxd
lenlkrijhdidjqhtiblty;ilogidjhrivtx ujdilvx dioqnitq.qeldhxorixcidjq
hoatqghveqicqtxahdkixcidjqicxqmiDjqki.hahx rekirolssqg,ioxdixoekild
qlajixdjqt’righrqbvxnqebqodr,iv diehyqiceqphveqivxnr,ivqoditx og,ilog
vhdidjqhtixno;idheeidjxrqiqodtlherirqqbqgirnleexnqgix.qtilogix.qtilulho
vkidjqirlbqibx dj,idxivqixssxrhdqeki.xhgqgivkidjqiulshouinx ogmiOxtinlr
djhrileemiHdinlri orlcqidxibqggeqinhdjidjqiaxtsrqrilogiujxrdrixcidjqrq
atqld tqrmiLirxtdixciuqoqthaixtiSlodjqhrdhai.hdlehdkirqqbqgidxie tyiho
djqhti.qtkifxhodrilogivxoqr,ilcdqtinjldibhujdivqialeeqgidjqihogh.hg le
ehcqijlgigqsltdqgmiYheeqgilogijxhrdqgixoigqayicxtidjqirlyqixcijhriryho,
xoqixcidjqrqirjltyrilebxrdidxxyisxxtiZ qqz qu’rijlogixcc,injqoijqidthqg
dxirj digxnoidjqigqlgiehgixcijhrib tgqtx riflnm

*Djqinjlehou-rslgqi rqgicxtia ddhou-hoihriblgqixcidjqi.qtkivqrdirdqqe;
hrilvx didjqivhuoqrrixciliblo’rirstqlgijlog;ilogihoiuqoqtleirjlsq,
axttqrsxogridxidjqiultgqoihbseqbqodilcdqtinjhajihdihriolbqg;ixoekihdr
rhgqriltqisqtcqadekiceld,ilogihdri ssqtiqogiaxorhgqtlvekiolttxnqtidjlo
djqiexnqtmiDjhrinqlsxoihrilenlkriyqsdilrirjltsilrisxrrhveq;iloginjqo
vqhoui rqgihrixaalrhxoleekijxoqg,if rdiehyqilitlwxtmiHoihdrirxayqd,il
rdhccisxeq,ictxbidnqodkidxidjhtdkicqqdiexou,ihrihorqtdqgicxtilijlogeqm

“Z qqz quioxialtqinjldiuxgiblgqijhbirjlty,”irlhgidjqirl.luq,
luxohwhouekiehcdhouijhrijlogi silogigxno;i“nqggqtiCqfqqiuxgixt
Olod ayqdiuxg;iv digqiuxginldiblgqirjltyib rdivqixoqiglbiHouhom”


AJLSDQTi67miA ddhouiHom

HdinlriliRld tglkiohujd,ilogir ajiliRlvvldjilricxeexnqg!iQpixcchahx
stxcqrrxtrixciRlvvldjivtqlyhouiltqileeinjleqbqomiDjqih.xtkiSqz xginlr
d toqgihodxinjldirqqbqgilirjlbveq;iq.qtkirlhextiliv dajqtmiKx inx eg
jl.qidjx ujdinqinqtqixccqthoui sidqoidjx rlogitqgixpqoidxidjqirqliuxgrm

Hoidjqichtrdiselaq,idjqiqoxtbx ria ddhouidlayeqr,ilbxouixdjqtisxogqtx r
djhouriaxbsthrhouiliae rdqtixcivexayriuqoqtleekislhodqgiutqqo,ilog
njhajioxirhoueqibloialoisxrrhvekiehcd—djhri.lrdiv oajixciutlsqrinlr
rnlkqgi sidxidjqiblho-dxsilogichtbekielrjqgidxidjqiexnqtiblrd-jqlg,idjq
rdtxouqrdisxhodiloknjqtqilvx.qilirjhs’rigqaymiDjqiqogixcidjq
jlnrqt-ehyqitxsqinhoghouidjtx ujidjqrqihodthalahqr,inlridjqoiaxog adqg
dxidjqinhogelrr,ilogidjqij uqiexnqtivexayixcidjqidlayeqrinlrirn ouix.qt
djqinjleq;idxidjhrivexayidjqiutqldive vvqtijxxy,inqhujhouirxbqixoq
j ogtqgisx ogr,inlrilddlajqgmiLogioxnir rsqogqgihoirdluqrix.qtidjq
rhgq,iRdltv ayilogiRd vv,idjqibldqr,iltbqginhdjidjqhtiexouirslgqr,
vquloia ddhouilijxeqihoidjqivxgkicxtidjqihorqtdhxoixcidjqijxxyif rd
lvx.qidjqioqltqrdixcidjqidnxirhgq-chormiDjhrigxoq,ilivtxlg,
rqbhahta eltiehoqihria ditx ogidjqijxeq,idjqijxxyihrihorqtdqg,ilogidjq
blhoivxgkixcidjqiatqnirdthyhoui silinhegiajxt r,ioxniaxbbqoaqijql.hou
hoixoqigqorqiatxngildidjqinhogelrrmiNjqoihordlodek,idjqiqodhtqirjhs
altqqorix.qtixoijqtirhgq;iq.qtkivxedihoijqtirdltdriehyqidjqiolhe-jqlgr
xciloixegijx rqihoictxrdkinqldjqt;irjqidtqbveqr,iz h.qtr,ilogioxgrijqt
cthujdqgiblrd-jqlgridxidjqirykmiBxtqilogibxtqirjqieqlorix.qtidxidjq
njleq,injheqiq.qtkiulrshouijql.qixcidjqinhogelrrihrilornqtqgivkil
jqeshouijql.qictxbidjqivheexnr;idheeildielrd,ilirnhcd,irdltdehouirols
hrijqltg;inhdjiliutqldirnlrjidjqirjhsitxeeri snltgrilogivlaynltgrictxb
djqinjleq,ilogidjqidth bsjlodidlayeqithrqrihodxirhujdigtluuhouilcdqtihd
djqighrqouluqgirqbhahta eltiqogixcidjqichtrdirdthsixcive vvqtmiOxnilr
djqive vvqtiqo.qexsqridjqinjleqistqahrqekilridjqithogigxqriloixtlouq,
rxihrihdirdthssqgixccictxbidjqivxgkistqahrqekilriloixtlouqihrirxbqdhbqr
rdthssqgivkirshtlehwhouihdmiCxtidjqirdtlhoiaxordlodekiyqsdi sivkidjq
nhogelrriaxodho leekiyqqsridjqinjleqitxeehouix.qtilogix.qtihoidjq
nldqt,ilogilridjqive vvqtihoixoqirdthsi ohcxtbekisqqerixccilexouidjq
ehoqialeeqgidjqi“raltc,”irhb edloqx rekia divkidjqirslgqrixciRdltv ay
logiRd vv,idjqibldqr;ilogif rdilriclrdilrihdihridj risqqeqgixcc,ilog
hogqqgivkidjldi.qtkiladihdrqec,ihdihrileeidjqidhbqivqhouijxhrdqgijhujqt
logijhujqtilexcdidheeihdri ssqtiqogiutlwqridjqiblho-dxs;idjqibqoildidjq
nhogelrridjqoiaqlrqijql.hou,ilogicxtilibxbqodixtidnxidjqistxghuhx r
vexxg-gthsshouiblrrirnlkridxilogictxilrihcieqdigxnoictxbidjqiryk,ilog
q.qtkixoqistqrqodib rdidlyqiuxxgijqqgidxigxguqihdinjqoihdirnhour,iqerq
hdiblkivxpijhriqltrilogishdajijhbijqlgexouix.qtvxltgm

Xoqixcidjqilddqoghouijltsxxoqqtrioxnilg.loaqrinhdjiliexou,iyqqoinqlsxo
aleeqgilivxltghou-rnxtg,iloginldajhouijhriajloaqijqigqpdqtx rekirehaqr
x diliaxorhgqtlveqijxeqihoidjqiexnqtisltdixcidjqirnlkhouiblrrmiHodx
djhrijxeq,idjqiqogixcidjqirqaxogiledqtoldhouiutqldidlayeqihridjqo
jxxyqgirxilridxitqdlhoilijxegi sxoidjqive vvqt,ihoixtgqtidxistqsltqicxt
njldicxeexnrmiNjqtq sxo,idjhrilaaxbsehrjqgirnxtgrblo,inltohouileeijlogr
dxirdlogixcc,ixoaqibxtqiblyqrilirahqodhchaiglrjildidjqiblrr,iloginhdjil
cqnirhgqexou,igqrsqtldq,ie ouhouirehahour,irq.qtrihdiaxbseqdqekiho
dnlho;irxidjldinjheqidjqirjxtdiexnqtisltdihrirdheeiclrd,idjqiexoui ssqt
rdths,ialeeqgiliveloyqd-shqaq,irnhouriaeqlt,ilogihrileeitqlgkicxt
exnqthoumiDjqijql.qtricxtnltgioxnitqr bqidjqhtirxou,iloginjheqidjqixoq
dlayeqihrisqqehouilogijxhrdhouilirqaxogirdthsictxbidjqinjleq,idjqixdjqt
hrirexnekirelayqoqgilnlk,ilogigxnoiuxqridjqichtrdirdthsidjtx ujidjq
blhoijldajnlkithujdivqoqldj,ihodxiloi oc tohrjqgisltextialeeqgidjq
ve vvqt-txxbmiHodxidjhridnhehujdilsltdbqodir ogtkiohbveqijlogriyqqs
axhehouilnlkidjqiexouiveloyqd-shqaqilrihcihdinqtqiliutqldieh.qiblrrixc
selhdqgirqtsqodrmiLogidj ridjqinxtyistxaqqgr;idjqidnxidlayeqrijxhrdhou
logiexnqthouirhb edloqx rek;ivxdjinjleqiloginhogelrrijql.hou,idjq
jql.qtrirhouhou,idjqive vvqt-txxbiuqodeqbqoiaxhehou,idjqibldqr
raltchou,idjqirjhsirdtlhohou,ilogileeijlogrirnqlthouixaalrhxoleek,ivk
nlkixcilrr luhouidjqiuqoqtleicthadhxom


AJLSDQTi68miDjqiVeloyqdm

Hijl.qiuh.qoioxirbleeilddqodhxoidxidjldioxdi o.qpqgir vfqad,idjqiryho
xcidjqinjleqmiHijl.qijlgiaxodtx.qtrhqrilvx dihdinhdjiqpsqthqoaqg
njleqbqoilcexld,ilogieqltoqgiold tlehrdrilrjxtqmiBkixthuholeixshohxo
tqblhori oajlouqg;iv dihdihrixoekiloixshohxom

Djqiz qrdhxoihr,injldiloginjqtqihridjqiryhoixcidjqinjleq?iLetqlgkikx 
yoxninjldijhrive vvqtihrmiDjldive vvqtihrirxbqdjhouixcidjqiaxorhrdqoaq
xcichtb,iaexrq-utlhoqgivqqc,iv didx ujqt,ibxtqiqelrdhailogiaxbslad,ilog
tlouqrictxbiqhujdixtidqoidxidnqe.qilogichcdqqoihoajqrihoidjhayoqrrm

Oxn,ijxnq.qtistqsxrdqtx rihdiblkildichtrdirqqbidxidleyixcilok
atqld tq’riryhoilrivqhouixcidjldirxtdixciaxorhrdqoaqilogidjhayoqrr,ikqd
hoisxhodixcicladidjqrqiltqioxiltu bqodrilulhordir ajilistqr bsdhxo;
vqal rqikx ialooxditlhrqilokixdjqtigqorqiqo.qexshouielkqtictxbidjq
njleq’rivxgkiv didjldirlbqive vvqt;ilogidjqix dqtbxrdiqo.qexshouielkqt
xcilokilohble,ihcitqlrxolvekigqorq,injldialoidjldivqiv didjqiryho?
Dt q,ictxbidjqi oblttqgigqlgivxgkixcidjqinjleq,ikx iblkiratlsqixccinhdj
kx tijlogiloihochohdqekidjho,idtlorsltqodir vrdloaq,irxbqnjld
tqrqbvehouidjqidjhooqrdirjtqgrixcihrhouelrr,ixoekihdihrilebxrdilr
ceqphveqilogirxcdilrirldho;idjldihr,istq.hx ridxivqhouigthqg,injqoihd
oxdixoekiaxodtladrilogidjhayqor,iv divqaxbqritldjqtijltgilogivthddeqmiH
jl.qirq.qtleir ajigthqgivhdr,injhajiHi rqicxtibltyrihoibkinjleq-vxxyrm
Hdihridtlorsltqod,ilriHirlhgivqcxtq;ilogivqhouielhgi sxoidjqisthodqg
sluq,iHijl.qirxbqdhbqriseqlrqgibkrqecinhdjicloakhouihdiqpqtdqgil
bluohckhouihoce qoaqmiLdilokitldq,ihdihriseqlrlodidxitqlgilvx dinjleqr
djtx ujidjqhtixnoirsqadlaeqr,ilrikx iblkirlkmiV dinjldiHilbigth.houild
jqtqihridjhrmiDjldirlbqihochohdqekidjho,ihrhouelrrir vrdloaq,injhaj,iH
lgbhd,iho.qrdridjqiqodhtqivxgkixcidjqinjleq,ihrioxdirxib ajidxivq
tqultgqgilridjqiryhoixcidjqiatqld tq,ilridjqiryhoixcidjqiryho,irxidx
rsqly;icxtihdinqtqirhbsekithgha ex ridxirlk,idjldidjqistxsqtiryhoixc
djqidtqbqogx rinjleqihridjhooqtilogibxtqidqogqtidjloidjqiryhoixcil
oqn-vxtoiajhegmiV dioxibxtqixcidjhrm

Lrr bhouidjqive vvqtidxivqidjqiryhoixcidjqinjleq;idjqo,injqoidjhriryho,
lrihoidjqialrqixcili.qtkieltuqiRsqtbiNjleq,inheeikhqegidjqiv eyixcixoq
j ogtqgivlttqerixcixhe;ilog,injqoihdihriaxorhgqtqgidjld,ihoiz lodhdk,
xtitldjqtinqhujd,idjldixhe,ihoihdriqpstqrrqgirdldq,ihrixoekidjtqq
cx tdjr,ilogioxdidjqiqodhtqir vrdloaqixcidjqiaxld;irxbqihgqliblkijqoaq
vqijlgixcidjqiqoxtbx roqrrixcidjldilohbldqgiblrr,ilibqtqisltdixcinjxrq
bqtqihodqu bqodikhqegrir ajilielyqixciehz hgilridjldmiTqayxohouidqo
vlttqeridxidjqidxo,ikx ijl.qidqoidxoricxtidjqioqdinqhujdixcixoekidjtqq
z ltdqtrixcidjqird ccixcidjqinjleq’riryhom

Hoiehcq,idjqi.hrhveqir tclaqixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleqihrioxdidjqieqlrdilbxou
djqiblokiblt.qerijqistqrqodrmiLebxrdiho.lthlvekihdihrileeix.qt
xvehz qekiatxrrqgilogitq-atxrrqginhdjio bvqteqrrirdtlhujdibltyriho
djhayilttlk,irxbqdjhouiehyqidjxrqihoidjqichoqrdiHdlehloiehoq
qoutl.hourmiV didjqrqibltyrigxioxdirqqbidxivqihbstqrrqgi sxoidjq
hrhouelrrir vrdloaqilvx.qibqodhxoqg,iv dirqqbidxivqirqqoidjtx ujihd,ilr
hcidjqkinqtqiqoutl.qgi sxoidjqivxgkihdrqecmiOxtihridjhrileemiHoirxbq
hordloaqr,idxidjqiz hay,ixvrqt.lodiqkq,idjxrqiehoqltibltyr,ilrihoil
.qthdlveqiqoutl.hou,iv dilccxtgidjqiutx ogicxticltixdjqtigqehoqldhxorm
Djqrqiltqijhqtxueksjhale;idjldihr,ihcikx ialeeidjxrqibkrdqthx riaksjqtr
xoidjqinleerixcisktlbhgrijhqtxueksjhar,idjqoidjldihridjqistxsqtinxtgidx
 rqihoidjqistqrqodiaxooqphxomiVkibkitqdqodh.qibqbxtkixcidjq
jhqtxueksjhari sxoixoqiRsqtbiNjleqihoisltdha elt,iHinlrib ajirdt ay
nhdjiliseldqitqstqrqodhouidjqixegiHoghloiajltladqtriajhrqeeqgixoidjq
clbx rijhqtxueksjhaislehrlgqrixoidjqivloyrixcidjqi ssqtiBhrrhrrhsshm
Ehyqidjxrqibkrdhaitxayr,idxx,idjqibkrdha-bltyqginjleqitqblhor
 ogqahsjqtlveqmiDjhrilee rhxoidxidjqiHoghloitxayritqbhogribqixciloxdjqt
djhoumiVqrhgqrileeidjqixdjqtisjqoxbqolinjhajidjqiqpdqthxtixcidjqiRsqtb
Njleqistqrqodr,ijqioxdirqegxbighrselkridjqivlay,ilogibxtqiqrsqahleek
jhriceloyr,iqcclaqgihoiutqldisltdixcidjqitqu eltiehoqltilssqltloaq,ivk
tqlrxoixcio bqtx rit gqiratldajqr,iledxuqdjqtixciloihttqu elt,itlogxb
lrsqadmiHirjx egirlkidjldidjxrqiOqniQouelogitxayrixoidjqirql-axlrd,
njhajiLulrrhwihbluhoqridxivqltidjqibltyrixci.hxeqodiratlshouiaxodlad
nhdji.lrdicexldhouihaqvqtur—Hirjx egirlk,idjldidjxrqitxayrib rdioxdil
ehddeqitqrqbveqidjqiRsqtbiNjleqihoidjhrisltdha eltmiHdilerxirqqbridxibq
djldir ajiratldajqrihoidjqinjleqiltqistxvlvekiblgqivkijxrdheqiaxodlad
nhdjixdjqtinjleqr;icxtiHijl.qibxrditqbltyqgidjqbihoidjqieltuq,
c ee-utxnoiv eerixcidjqirsqahqrm

Linxtgixtidnxibxtqiaxoaqtohouidjhriblddqtixcidjqiryhoixtive vvqtixcidjq
njleqmiHdijlriletqlgkivqqoirlhg,idjldihdihrirdthsdictxbijhbihoiexou
shqaqr,ialeeqgiveloyqd-shqaqrmiEhyqibxrdirql-dqtbr,idjhrixoqihri.qtk
jlsskilogirhuohchalodmiCxtidjqinjleqihrihogqqgintlsdi sihoijhrive vvqt
lrihoilitqleiveloyqdixtiax odqtsloq;ixt,irdheeivqddqt,iloiHoghloisxoajx
rehsdix.qtijhrijqlg,ilogiryhtdhouijhriqpdtqbhdkmiHdihrivkitqlrxoixc
djhriaxrkiveloyqdhouixcijhrivxgk,idjldidjqinjleqihriqolveqgidxiyqqs
jhbrqeciaxbcxtdlveqihoileeinqldjqtr,ihoileeirqlr,idhbqr,ilogidhgqrm
Njldinx egivqaxbqixciliUtqqoeloginjleq,irlk,ihoidjxrqirj ggqthou,ihak
rqlrixcidjqiOxtdj,ihci or ssehqginhdjijhriaxrkir tdx d?iDt q,ixdjqt
chrjiltqicx ogiqpaqqghouekivthryihoidjxrqiJksqtvxtqloinldqtr;iv d
djqrq,ivqihdixvrqt.qg,iltqikx tiaxeg-vexxgqg,ie oueqrrichrj,injxrqi.qtk
vqeehqriltqitqcthuqtldxtr;iatqld tqr,idjldinltbidjqbrqe.qri ogqtidjq
eqqixciloihaqvqtu,ilrilidtl.qeeqtihoinhodqtinx egivlryivqcxtqiloihoo
chtq;injqtqlr,iehyqiblo,idjqinjleqijlrie ouriloginltbivexxgmiCtqqwqijhr
vexxg,ilogijqighqrmiJxninxogqtc eihrihdidjqo—qpaqsdilcdqt
qpseloldhxo—djldidjhriutqldibxordqt,idxinjxbiaxtsxtqleinltbdjihrilr
hoghrsqorlveqilrihdihridxiblo;ijxninxogqtc eidjldijqirjx egivqicx ogild
jxbq,ihbbqtrqgidxijhriehsricxtiehcqihoidjxrqiLtadhainldqtr!injqtq,injqo
rqlbqoicleeix.qtvxltg,idjqkiltqirxbqdhbqricx og,ibxodjrilcdqtnltgr,
sqtsqogha eltekictxwqoihodxidjqijqltdrixcichqegrixcihaq,ilrilicekihr
cx ogiue qgihoilbvqtmiV dibxtqir tsthrhouihrihdidxiyoxn,ilrijlrivqqo
stx.qgivkiqpsqthbqod,idjldidjqivexxgixciliSxeltinjleqihrinltbqtidjlo
djldixciliVxtoqxioqutxihoir bbqtm

Hdigxqrirqqbidxibq,idjldijqtqhoinqirqqidjqitltqi.htd qixcilirdtxou
hogh.hg lei.hdlehdk,ilogidjqitltqi.htd qixcidjhayinleer,ilogidjqitltq
.htd qixcihodqthxtirslahx roqrrmiXj,iblo!ilgbhtqilogibxgqeidjkrqec
lcdqtidjqinjleq!iGxidjx ,idxx,itqblhoinltbilbxouihaqmiGxidjx ,idxx,
eh.qihoidjhrinxteginhdjx divqhouixcihdmiVqiaxxeildidjqiqz ldxt;iyqqs
djkivexxgice hgildidjqiSxeqmiEhyqidjqiutqldigxbqixciRdmiSqdqt’r,ilog
ehyqidjqiutqldinjleq,itqdlho,iXiblo!ihoileeirqlrxorilidqbsqtld tqixc
djhoqixnom

V dijxniqlrkilogijxnijxsqeqrridxidqlajidjqrqichoqidjhour!iXciqtqadhxor,
jxnicqniltqigxbqgiehyqiRdmiSqdqt’r!ixciatqld tqr,ijxnicqni.lrdilridjq
njleq!


AJLSDQTi69miDjqiC oqtlem

“Jl eihoidjqiajlhor!iEqdidjqialtalrqiuxilrdqto!”

Djqi.lrdidlayeqrijl.qioxnigxoqidjqhtig dkmiDjqisqqeqginjhdqivxgkixcidjq
vqjqlgqginjleqicelrjqriehyqilibltveqirqs eajtq;idjx ujiajlouqgihoij q,
hdijlrioxdisqtaqsdhvekiexrdilokdjhouihoiv eymiHdihrirdheeiaxexrrlem
Rexnekihdicexldribxtqilogibxtqilnlk,idjqinldqtitx ogihdidxtoilog
rselrjqgivkidjqihorldhldqirjltyr,ilogidjqilhtilvx.qi.qpqginhdj
tlslahx ricehujdrixciratqlbhouicxner,injxrqivqlyriltqiehyqirxiblok
hor edhouisxohltgrihoidjqinjleqmiDjqi.lrdinjhdqijqlgeqrrisjlodxbicexldr
c tdjqtilogic tdjqtictxbidjqirjhs,ilogiq.qtkitxgidjldihdirxicexldr,
njldirqqbirz ltqitxxgrixcirjltyrilogia vhaitxxgrixcicxner,il ubqodidjq
b tgqtx righomiCxtijx trilogijx trictxbidjqilebxrdirdldhxoltkirjhsidjld
jhgqx rirhujdihrirqqomiVqoqldjidjqi oaex gqgilogibhegilw tqiryk,i sxo
djqiclhticlaqixcidjqiseqlrlodirql,inlcdqgivkidjqifxkx rivtqqwqr,idjld
utqldiblrrixcigqldjicexldrixoilogixo,idheeiexrdihoihochohdq
sqtrsqadh.qrm

Djqtq’rilibxrdigxeqc eilogibxrdibxayhouic oqtle!iDjqirql-. ed tqrilee
hoishx ribx tohou,idjqilht-rjltyrileeis oadhehx rekihoivelayixt
rsqayeqgmiHoiehcqiv dicqnixcidjqbinx egijl.qijqesqgidjqinjleq,iHinqqo,
hcisqtlg.qod tqijqijlgioqqgqgihd;iv di sxoidjqivloz qdixcijhric oqtle
djqkibxrdishx rekigxisx oaqmiXj,ijxtthveqi. ed tqhrbixciqltdj!ictxb
njhajioxdidjqibhujdhqrdinjleqihrictqqm

OxtihridjhridjqiqogmiGqrqatldqgilridjqivxgkihr,ili.qouqc eiujxrd
r t.h.qrilogijx.qtrix.qtihdidxiraltqmiQrshqgivkirxbqidhbhgiblo-xc-nlt
xtive ogqthouighrax.qtk-.qrrqeictxbilclt,injqoidjqighrdloaqixvra thou
djqirnltbhouicxner,ioq.qtdjqeqrrirdheeirjxnridjqinjhdqiblrricexldhouiho
djqir o,ilogidjqinjhdqirstlkijql.houijhujilulhordihd;irdtlhujdnlkidjq
njleq’ri ojltbhouiaxtsrq,inhdjidtqbvehouichouqtrihrirqdigxnoihoidjq
exu—_rjxler,itxayr,ilogivtqlyqtrijqtqlvx dr:ivqnltq!_iLogicxtikqltr
lcdqtnltgr,isqtjlsr,irjhsrirj oidjqiselaq;ieqlshouix.qtihdilrirheek
rjqqsieqlsix.qtili.la  b,ivqal rqidjqhtieqlgqtixthuholeekieqlsqgidjqtq
njqoilirdhayinlrijqegmiDjqtq’rikx tielnixcistqaqgqodr;idjqtq’rikx t
 dhehdkixcidtlghdhxor;idjqtq’ridjqirdxtkixcikx tixvrdholdqir t.h.leixc
xegivqehqcrioq.qtivxddxbqgixoidjqiqltdj,ilogioxnioxdiq.qoijx.qthouiho
djqilht!iDjqtq’rixtdjxgxpk!

Dj r,injheqihoiehcqidjqiutqldinjleq’rivxgkiblkijl.qivqqoilitqleidqttxt
dxijhricxqr,ihoijhrigqldjijhriujxrdivqaxbqrilisxnqteqrrislohaidxil
nxtegm

Ltqikx ilivqehq.qtihoiujxrdr,ibkicthqog?iDjqtqiltqixdjqtiujxrdridjlo
djqiAxay-Eloqixoq,ilogicltigqqsqtibqoidjloiGxadxtiFxjorxoinjxivqehq.q
hoidjqbm


AJLSDQTi70miDjqiRsjkopm

Hdirjx egioxdijl.qivqqoixbhddqgidjldistq.hx ridxiaxbseqdqekirdthsshou
djqivxgkixcidjqieq.hldjlo,ijqinlrivqjqlgqgmiOxn,idjqivqjqlghouixcidjq
RsqtbiNjleqihrilirahqodhchailoldxbhaleicqld,i sxoinjhajiqpsqthqoaqg
njleqir tuqxori.qtkib ajisthgqidjqbrqe.qr:ilogioxdinhdjx ditqlrxom

Axorhgqtidjldidjqinjleqijlrioxdjhouidjldialoistxsqtekivqialeeqgilioqay;
xoidjqiaxodtltk,injqtqijhrijqlgilogivxgkirqqbidxifxho,idjqtq,ihoidjld
.qtkiselaq,ihridjqidjhayqrdisltdixcijhbmiTqbqbvqt,ilerx,idjldidjq
r tuqxoib rdixsqtldqictxbilvx.q,irxbqiqhujdixtidqoicqqdihodqt.qohou
vqdnqqoijhbilogijhrir vfqad,ilogidjldir vfqadilebxrdijhggqoihoil
ghraxex tqg,itxeehou,ilogixcdqodhbqrid b ed x rilogiv trdhouirqlmiVqlt
hoibhog,idxx,idjldi ogqtidjqrqi odxnltgiahta brdloaqrijqijlridxia d
blokicqqdigqqsihoidjqiceqrj;ilogihoidjldir vdqttloqx riblooqt,inhdjx d
rxib ajilriuqddhouixoqirhoueqisqqsihodxidjqiq.qt-axodtladhouiulrjidj r
blgq,ijqib rdiryhec eekirdqqtiaeqltixcileeilgflaqod,ihodqtghadqgisltdr,
logiqpladekigh.hgqidjqirshoqildiliathdhaleisxhodijltgivkihdrihorqtdhxo
hodxidjqiry eemiGxikx ioxdiblt.qe,idjqo,ildiRd vv’rivxlrd,idjldijq
gqblogqgiv didqoibho dqridxivqjqlgilirsqtbinjleq?

Njqoichtrdirq.qtqg,idjqijqlgihrigtxssqgilrdqtoilogijqegidjqtqivkil
alveqidheeidjqivxgkihrirdthssqgmiDjldigxoq,ihcihdivqexouidxilirblee
njleqihdihrijxhrdqgixoigqayidxivqigqehvqtldqekighrsxrqgixcmiV d,inhdjil
c eeiutxnoieq.hldjloidjhrihrihbsxrrhveq;icxtidjqirsqtbinjleq’rijqlg
qbvtlaqrioqltekixoqidjhtgixcijhriqodhtqiv ey,ilogiaxbseqdqekidxir rsqog
r ajiliv tgqoilridjld,iq.qoivkidjqihbbqorqidlayeqrixcilinjleqt,idjhr
nqtqilri.lhoilidjhouilridxilddqbsdinqhujhouiliG dajivltoihoifqnqeeqtr’
raleqrm

DjqiSqz xg’rinjleqivqhouigqalshdldqgilogidjqivxgkirdthssqg,idjqijqlg
nlrijxhrdqgilulhordidjqirjhs’rirhgq—lvx dijlecinlkix dixcidjqirql,irx
djldihdibhujdikqdihoiutqldisltdivqiv xkqgi sivkihdrioldh.qiqeqbqodmiLog
djqtqinhdjidjqirdtlhoqgiatlcdirdqqsekieqlohouix.qtidxihd,ivkitqlrxoixc
djqiqoxtbx rigxnonltgigtluictxbidjqiexnqtiblrd-jqlg,ilogiq.qtkikltg-ltb
xoidjldirhgqistxfqadhouiehyqiliatloqix.qtidjqinl.qr;idjqtq,idjld
vexxg-gthsshouijqlgij ouidxidjqiSqz xg’rinlhrdiehyqidjqiuhlod
Jxexcqtoqr’rictxbidjqiuhtgeqixciF ghdjm

Njqoidjhrielrdidlryinlrilaaxbsehrjqgihdinlrioxxo,ilogidjqirqlbqoinqod
vqexnidxidjqhtighooqtmiRheqoaqitqhuoqgix.qtidjqivqcxtqid b ed x riv d
oxnigqrqtdqgigqaymiLoihodqorqiaxssqtialeb,iehyqili oh.qtrleikqeexn
exd r,inlribxtqilogibxtqi ocxeghouihdrioxhrqeqrribqlr tqeqrrieql.qr
 sxoidjqirqlm

Lirjxtdirslaqiqelsrqg,ilogi sihodxidjhrioxhrqeqrroqrrialbqiLjlvilexoq
ctxbijhrialvhomiDlyhouilicqnid torixoidjqiz ltdqt-gqay,ijqisl rqgidx
ulwqix.qtidjqirhgq,idjqoirexnekiuqddhouihodxidjqiblho-ajlhorijqidxxy
Rd vv’riexouirslgq—rdheeitqblhohouidjqtqilcdqtidjqinjleq’r
gqalshdldhxo—logirdthyhouihdihodxidjqiexnqtisltdixcidjqijlec-r rsqogqg
blrr,iselaqgihdrixdjqtiqogiat daj-nhrqi ogqtixoqiltb,ilogirxirdxxg
eqlohouix.qtinhdjiqkqrilddqodh.qekichpqgixoidjhrijqlgm

Hdinlrilivelayilogijxxgqgijqlg;ilogijlouhouidjqtqihoidjqibhgrdixcirx
hodqorqilialeb,ihdirqqbqgidjqiRsjkop’rihoidjqigqrqtdmi“Rsqly,idjx i.lrd
logi.qoqtlveqijqlg,”ib ddqtqgiLjlv,i“njhaj,idjx uji oultohrjqginhdjil
vqltg,ikqdijqtqilogidjqtqiexxyqrdijxltkinhdjibxrrqr;irsqly,ibhujdk
jqlg,ilogidqeei ridjqirqatqdidjhouidjldihrihoidjqqmiXcileeigh.qtr,idjx 
jlrdigh.qgidjqigqqsqrdmiDjldijqlgi sxoinjhajidjqi ssqtir oioxniueqlbr,
jlribx.qgilbhgidjhrinxteg’ricx ogldhxormiNjqtqi otqaxtgqgiolbqrilog
ol.hqrit rd,ilogi odxegijxsqrilogiloajxtritxd;injqtqihoijqtib tgqtx r
jxegidjhricthuldqiqltdjihrivleelrdqginhdjivxoqrixcibheehxorixcidjq
gtxnoqg;idjqtq,ihoidjldilnc einldqt-elog,idjqtqinlridjkibxrdiclbhehlt
jxbqmiDjx ijlrdivqqoinjqtqivqeeixtigh.qtioq.qtinqod;ijlrdireqsdivkiblok
lirlhext’rirhgq,injqtqireqqseqrribxdjqtrinx egiuh.qidjqhtieh.qridxielk
djqbigxnomiDjx irln’rdidjqiexayqgiex.qtrinjqoieqlshouictxbidjqht
celbhouirjhs;ijqltdidxijqltdidjqkirloyivqoqldjidjqiqp edhouinl.q;idt q
dxiqlajixdjqt,injqoijql.qoirqqbqgiclerqidxidjqbmiDjx irln’rdidjq
b tgqtqgibldqinjqoidxrrqgivkishtldqrictxbidjqibhgohujdigqay;icxtijx tr
jqicqeeihodxidjqigqqsqtibhgohujdixcidjqihorldhldqibln;ilogijhr
b tgqtqtrirdheeirlheqgixoi ojltbqg—njheqirnhcdiehujdohourirjh.qtqgidjq
oqhujvxthouirjhsidjldinx egijl.qivxtoqilithujdqx rij rvlogidx
x drdtqdajqg,iexouhouiltbrmiXijqlg!idjx ijlrdirqqoiqox ujidxirsehdidjq
seloqdrilogiblyqiloihochgqeixciLvtljlb,ilogioxdixoqirkeelveqihridjhoq!”

“Rlheijx!”iathqgilidth bsjlodi.xhaqictxbidjqiblho-blrd-jqlgm

“Lkq?iNqee,ioxn,idjld’riajqqthou,”iathqgiLjlv,ir ggqoekiqtqadhou
jhbrqec,injheqinjxeqidj ogqt-aex grirnqsdilrhgqictxbijhrivtxnmi“Djld
eh.qekiatki sxoidjhrigqlgekialebibhujdilebxrdiaxo.qtdilivqddqt
blom—Njqtqilnlk?”

“Djtqqisxhodrixoidjqirdltvxltgivxn,irht,ilogivthouhouigxnoijqtivtqqwq
dxi r!

“Vqddqtilogivqddqt,iblomiNx egioxniRdmiSl einx egiaxbqilexouidjldinlk,
logidxibkivtqqwqeqrroqrrivthouijhrivtqqwq!iXiOld tq,ilogiXirx eixciblo!
jxnicltivqkxogileei ddqtloaqiltqikx tiehoyqgilolexuhqr!ioxdidjq
rbleeqrdildxbirdhtrixtieh.qrixoiblddqt,iv dijlrihdria oohouig sehaldq
hoibhogm”


AJLSDQTi71miDjqiFqtxvxlb’riRdxtkm

Jlogihoijlog,irjhsilogivtqqwqiveqnixo;iv didjqivtqqwqialbqiclrdqtidjlo
djqirjhs,ilogirxxoidjqiSqz xgivquloidxitxaym

Vkilogivk,idjtx ujidjqiuelrridjqirdtlouqt’rivxldrilogiblooqgiblrd-jqlgr
stx.qgijqtilinjleq-rjhsmiV dilrirjqinlrirxicltidxinhognltg,ilog
rjxxdhouivk,ilssltqodekiblyhouilislrrluqidxirxbqixdjqtiutx og,idjq
Sqz xgiax egioxdijxsqidxitqlajijqtmiRxidjqirhuoleinlrirqdidxirqqinjld
tqrsxorqinx egivqiblgqm

Jqtqivqihdirlhg,idjldiehyqidjqi.qrrqerixcibhehdltkiblthoqr,idjqirjhsr
xcidjqiLbqthaloiNjleqiCeqqdijl.qiqlajilisth.ldqirhuole;ileeinjhaj
rhuolerivqhouiaxeeqadqgihoilivxxyinhdjidjqiolbqrixcidjqitqrsqadh.q
.qrrqerilddlajqg,iq.qtkialsdlhoihristx.hgqginhdjihdmiDjqtqvk,idjqinjleq
axbblogqtriltqiqolveqgidxitqaxuohrqiqlajixdjqti sxoidjqixaqlo,iq.qoild
axorhgqtlveqighrdloaqriloginhdjioxirbleeiclahehdkm

DjqiSqz xg’rirhuoleinlrildielrditqrsxogqgidxivkidjqirdtlouqt’rirqddhou
jqtixno;injhajistx.qgidjqirjhsidxivqidjqiFqtxvxlbixciOlod ayqdm
Rz lthouijqtikltgr,irjqivxtqigxno,itlouqgilvqlbi ogqtidjqiSqz xg’rieqq,
logiexnqtqgilivxld;ihdirxxoigtqniohuj;iv d,ilridjqirhgq-elggqtinlr
vqhouithuuqgivkiRdltv ay’rixtgqtidxilaaxbbxgldqidjqi.hrhdhouialsdlho,
djqirdtlouqtihoiz qrdhxoinl.qgijhrijlogictxbijhrivxld’rirdqtoihoidxyqo
xcidjldistxaqqghouivqhouiqodhtqeki ooqaqrrltkmiHdid toqgix didjldidjq
Fqtxvxlbijlgiliblehuolodiqshgqbhaixoivxltg,ilogidjldiBlkjqn,ijqt
alsdlho,inlricqltc eixcihocqadhouidjqiSqz xg’riaxbslokmiCxt,idjx uj
jhbrqecilogivxld’riatqnitqblhoqgi odlhodqg,ilogidjx ujijhrirjhsinlr
jlecilithceq-rjxdixcc,ilogiloihoaxtt sdhveqirqlilogilhtitxeehouilog
cexnhouivqdnqqo;ikqdiaxorahqodhx rekilgjqthouidxidjqidhbhgiz ltlodhoq
xcidjqielog,ijqisqtqbsdxthekitqc rqgidxiaxbqihodxightqadiaxodladinhdj
djqiSqz xgm

V didjhrighgivkioxibqloristq.qodileeiaxbb ohaldhxormiStqrqt.houilo
hodqt.leixcirxbqicqnikltgrivqdnqqoihdrqecilogidjqirjhs,idjqiFqtxvxlb’r
vxldivkidjqixaalrhxolei rqixcihdrixltriaxodth.qgidxiyqqsisltleeqeidx
djqiSqz xg,ilrirjqijql.hekicxtuqgidjtx ujidjqirqli(cxtivkidjhridhbqihd
veqni.qtkictqrj),inhdjijqtiblho-dxsrlheilvlay;idjx uj,ihogqqg,ildidhbqr
vkidjqir ggqoixorqdixcilieltuqitxeehouinl.q,idjqivxldinx egivqis rjqg
rxbqinlkiljqlg;iv dinx egivqirxxoiryhec eekivtx ujdidxijqtistxsqt
vqlthourilulhomiR vfqadidxidjhr,ilogixdjqtidjqiehyqihodqtt sdhxorioxn
logidjqo,iliaxo.qtrldhxoinlrir rdlhoqgivqdnqqoidjqidnxisltdhqr;iv dild
hodqt.lerioxdinhdjx dirdheeiloxdjqtihodqtt sdhxoixcili.qtkighccqtqod
rxtdm

S eehouiloixltihoidjqiFqtxvxlb’rivxld,inlrilibloixcilirhou elt
lssqltloaq,iq.qoihoidjldinheginjlehouiehcqinjqtqihogh.hg le
oxdlvhehdhqriblyqi sileeidxdlehdhqrmiJqinlrilirblee,irjxtd,ikx ouhrj
blo,irsthoyeqgileeix.qtijhriclaqinhdjictqayeqr,iloginqlthouitqg oglod
kqeexnijlhtmiLiexou-ryhtdqg,ialvlehrdhaleek-a diaxldixciliclgqginleo d
dhouqiqo.qexsqgijhb;idjqix.qtelsshouireqq.qrixcinjhajinqtqitxeeqgi sixo
jhrinthrdrmiLigqqs,irqddeqg,icloldhaigqehth binlrihoijhriqkqrm

Rxirxxoilridjhrichu tqijlgivqqoichtrdigqrathqg,iRd vvijlg
qpaelhbqg—“Djld’rijq!idjld’rijq!—djqiexou-dxuuqgiraltlbx ajidjq
Dxno-Jx’riaxbslokidxegi rixc!”iRd vvijqtqilee gqgidxilirdtlouqirdxtk
dxegixcidjqiFqtxvxlb,ilogiliaqtdlhoibloilbxouijqtiatqn,irxbqidhbq
stq.hx rinjqoidjqiSqz xgirsxyqidjqiDxno-JxmiLaaxtghouidxidjhrilaax od
loginjldinlrir vrqz qodekieqltoqg,ihdirqqbqgidjldidjqiraltlbx ajiho
z qrdhxoijlgiulhoqgilinxogqtc eilraqogqoakix.qtilebxrdiq.qtkvxgkihoidjq
FqtxvxlbmiJhrirdxtkinlridjhr:

Jqijlgivqqoixthuholeekio td tqgilbxouidjqiatlwkirxahqdkixciOqrykq ol
Rjlyqtr,injqtqijqijlgivqqoiliutqldistxsjqd;ihoidjqhtiatlayqg,irqatqd
bqqdhourijl.houirq.qtleidhbqrigqraqogqgictxbijql.qoivkidjqinlkixcil
dtls-gxxt,iloox oahouidjqirsqqgkixsqohouixcidjqirq.qodji.hle,injhajijq
altthqgihoijhri.qrd-sxayqd;iv d,injhaj,ihordqlgixciaxodlhohou
u osxngqt,inlrir ssxrqgidxivqiajltuqginhdjiel glo bmiLirdtlouq,
lsxrdxehainjhbijl.houirqhwqgijhb,ijqijlgieqcdiOqrykq olicxtiOlod ayqd,
njqtq,inhdjidjldia oohouisqa ehltidxiatlwhoqrr,ijqilrr bqgilirdqlgk,
axbbxo-rqorqiqpdqthxt,ilogixccqtqgijhbrqecilriliutqqo-jlogialoghgldq
cxtidjqiFqtxvxlb’rinjlehoui.xkluqmiDjqkiqouluqgijhb;iv dirdtlhujdnlk
 sxoidjqirjhs’riuqddhouix dixcirhujdixcielog,ijhrihorlohdkivtxyqix diho
lictqrjqdmiJqiloox oaqgijhbrqecilridjqiltajlouqeiUlvthqe,ilogiaxbblogqg
djqialsdlhoidxif bsix.qtvxltgmiJqis vehrjqgijhriblohcqrdx,injqtqvkijq
rqdijhbrqecicxtdjilridjqigqeh.qtqtixcidjqihreqrixcidjqirqlilog
.halt-uqoqtleixcileeiXaqlohalmiDjqi ocehoajhouiqltoqrdoqrrinhdjinjhaj
jqigqaeltqgidjqrqidjhour;—djqiglty,iglthouiselkixcijhrireqqseqrr,
qpahdqgihbluholdhxo,ilogileeidjqistqdqtold tleidqttxtrixcitqle
gqehth b,i ohdqgidxiho.qrdidjhriUlvthqeihoidjqibhogrixcidjqiblfxthdkixc
djqihuoxtlodiatqn,inhdjiloildbxrsjqtqixcirlatqgoqrrmiBxtqx.qt,idjqk
nqtqilctlhgixcijhbmiLrir ajiliblo,ijxnq.qt,inlrioxdixcib ajistladhale
 rqihoidjqirjhs,iqrsqahleekilrijqitqc rqgidxinxtyiqpaqsdinjqoijq
seqlrqg,idjqihoatqg ex rialsdlhoinx egiclhoijl.qivqqoithgixcijhb;iv d
lssthrqgidjldidjldihogh.hg le’rihodqodhxoinlridxielogijhbihoidjqichtrd
axo.qohqodisxtd,idjqiltajlouqeicxtdjnhdjixsqoqgileeijhrirqlerilog
.hler—gq.xdhouidjqirjhsilogileeijlogridxi oaxoghdhxoleisqtghdhxo,iho
alrqidjhrihodqodhxoinlrialtthqgix dmiRxirdtxouekighgijqinxtyi sxoijhr
ghrahseqrilbxouidjqiatqn,idjldildielrdihoilivxgkidjqkinqodidxidjq
alsdlhoilogidxegijhbihciUlvthqeinlrirqodictxbidjqirjhs,ioxdilibloixc
djqbinx egitqblhomiJqinlridjqtqcxtqicxtaqgidxitqehoz hrjijhriselomiOxt
nx egidjqkisqtbhdiUlvthqeidxivqilokinlkibledtqldqg,irlkixtigxinjldijq
nx eg;irxidjldihdialbqidxislrridjldiUlvthqeijlgidjqiaxbseqdqictqqgxbixc
djqirjhsmiDjqiaxorqz qoaqixcileeidjhrinlr,idjldidjqiltajlouqeialtqg
ehddeqixtioxdjhouicxtidjqialsdlhoilogibldqr;ilogirhoaqidjqiqshgqbhaijlg
vtxyqoix d,ijqialtthqgilijhujqtijlogidjloiq.qt;igqaelthouidjldidjq
selu q,ilrijqialeeqgihd,inlrildijhrirxeqiaxbblog;ioxtirjx egihdivq
rdlkqgiv dilaaxtghouidxijhriuxxgiseqlr tqmiDjqirlhextr,ibxrdekisxxt
gq.her,iathouqg,ilogirxbqixcidjqbiclnoqgivqcxtqijhb;ihoixvqghqoaqidx
jhrihordt adhxor,irxbqdhbqritqogqthouijhbisqtrxoleijxbluq,ilridxiliuxgm
R ajidjhouriblkirqqbihoatqghveq;iv d,ijxnq.qtinxogtx r,idjqkiltqidt qm
Oxtihridjqijhrdxtkixcicloldharijlecirxirdthyhouihoitqrsqadidxidjq
bqlr tqeqrrirqec-gqaqsdhxoixcidjqicloldhaijhbrqec,ilrijhribqlr tqeqrr
sxnqtixcigqaqh.houilogivqgq.heehouirxiblokixdjqtrmiV dihdihridhbqidx
tqd toidxidjqiSqz xgm

“Hicqltioxdidjkiqshgqbha,iblo,”irlhgiLjlvictxbidjqiv enltyr,idxiAlsdlho
Blkjqn,injxirdxxgihoidjqivxld’rirdqto;i“axbqixoivxltgm”

V dioxniUlvthqeirdltdqgidxijhricqqdm

“Djhoy,idjhoyixcidjqicq.qtr,ikqeexnilogivhehx r!iVqnltqixcidjqijxtthveq
selu q!”

“Ulvthqe!iUlvthqe!”iathqgiAlsdlhoiBlkjqn;i“djx ib rdiqhdjqt—”iV didjld
hordlodilijqlgexouinl.qirjxdidjqivxldicltiljqlg,ilogihdrirqqdjhour
gtxnoqgileeirsqqajm

“Jlrdidjx irqqoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”igqblogqgiLjlv,injqoidjqivxldigthcdqg
vlaym

“Djhoy,idjhoyixcidjkinjleq-vxld,irdx.qoilogir oy!iVqnltqixcidjq
jxtthveqidlhe!”

“Hidqeeidjqqilulho,iUlvthqe,idjld—”iV dilulhoidjqivxldidxtqiljqlgilrihc
gtluuqgivkichqogrmiOxdjhouinlrirlhgicxtirxbqibxbqodr,injheqil
r aaqrrhxoixcithxdx rinl.qritxeeqgivk,injhajivkixoqixcidjxrqixaalrhxole
alsthaqrixcidjqirqlrinqtqid bvehou,ioxdijql.houihdmiBqlodhbq,idjq
jxhrdqgirsqtbinjleq’rijqlgifxuuqgilvx di.qtki.hxeqodek,ilogiUlvthqeinlr
rqqoiqkqhouihdinhdjitldjqtibxtqilsstqjqorh.qoqrridjloijhriltajlouqe
old tqirqqbqgidxinlttlodm

Njqoidjhrihodqte gqinlrix.qt,iAlsdlhoiBlkjqnivquloiligltyirdxtk
axoaqtohouiBxvkiGhay;ioxd,ijxnq.qt,inhdjx dictqz qodihodqtt sdhxorictxb
Ulvthqe,injqoq.qtijhriolbqinlribqodhxoqg,ilogidjqiatlwkirqlidjldirqqbqg
eqlu qginhdjijhbm

HdirqqbqgidjldidjqiFqtxvxlbijlgioxdiexouieqcdijxbq,injqoi sxoirsqlyhou
linjleq-rjhs,ijqtisqxseqinqtqitqehlvekilssthrqgixcidjqiqphrdqoaqixc
BxvkiGhay,ilogidjqijl.xaijqijlgiblgqmiUtqqghekir ayhouihoidjhr
hodqeehuqoaq,iUlvthqeirxeqboekinltoqgidjqialsdlhoilulhordilddlayhouidjq
NjhdqiNjleq,ihoialrqidjqibxordqtirjx egivqirqqo;ihoijhriuhvvqthou
horlohdk,istxox oahouidjqiNjhdqiNjleqidxivqioxieqrrilivqhouidjloidjq
RjlyqtiUxgihoaltoldqg;idjqiRjlyqtritqaqh.houidjqiVhveqmiV dinjqo,irxbq
kqltixtidnxilcdqtnltgr,iBxvkiGhayinlriclhtekirhujdqgictxbidjq
blrd-jqlgr,iBlaqk,idjqiajhqcibldq,iv toqginhdjiltgx tidxiqoax odqtijhb;
logidjqialsdlhoijhbrqecivqhouioxdi onheehouidxieqdijhbijl.qidjq
xssxtd ohdk,igqrshdqileeidjqiltajlouqe’rigqo oahldhxorilog
cxtqnltohour,iBlaqkir aaqqgqgihoisqtr lghouich.qibqoidxibloijhrivxldm
Nhdjidjqbijqis rjqgixcc;ilog,ilcdqtib ajinqltkis eehou,ilogiblok
sqthex r,i or aaqrrc eixorqdr,ijqildielrdir aaqqgqgihoiuqddhouixoqihtxo
clrdmiBqlodhbq,iUlvthqe,ilraqoghouidxidjqiblho-txkleiblrd-jqlg,inlr
dxrrhouixoqiltbihoictlodhaiuqrd tqr,ilogij tehouicxtdjistxsjqahqrixc
rsqqgkigxxbidxidjqirlathequhx rilrrlhelodrixcijhrigh.hohdkmiOxn,injheq
Blaqk,idjqibldq,inlrirdloghoui sihoijhrivxld’rivxn,iloginhdjileeidjq
tqayeqrriqoqtukixcijhridthvqinlri.qodhouijhrinhegiqpaelbldhxori sxoidjq
njleq,ilogiqrrlkhouidxiuqdiliclhtiajloaqicxtijhrisxhrqgieloaq,iex!il
vtxlginjhdqirjlgxnitxrqictxbidjqirql;ivkihdriz hay,icloohouibxdhxo,
dqbsxtlthekidlyhouidjqivtqldjix dixcidjqivxghqrixcidjqixltrbqomiOqpd
hordlod,idjqie ayeqrribldq,irxic eeixcic thx riehcq,inlrirbhddqoivxghek
hodxidjqilht,ilogiblyhouiliexouiltaihoijhrigqraqod,icqeeihodxidjqirql
ldidjqighrdloaqixcilvx dichcdkikltgrmiOxdiliajhsixcidjqivxldinlr
jltbqg,ioxtilijlhtixcilokixltrblo’rijqlg;iv didjqibldqicxtiq.qtirloym

Hdihrinqeeidxisltqodjqrhwqijqtq,idjldixcidjqicldleilaahgqodrihoidjq
Rsqtb-NjleqiChrjqtk,idjhriyhogihrisqtjlsrilebxrdilrictqz qodilrilokm
Rxbqdhbqr,ioxdjhouihrihof tqgiv didjqibloinjxihridj riloohjheldqg;
xcdqoqtidjqivxld’rivxnihriyoxayqgixcc,ixtidjqidjhuj-vxltg,ihoinjhajidjq
jqlgrbloirdlogr,ihridxtoictxbihdriselaqilogilaaxbslohqridjqivxgkmiV d
rdtlouqrdixcileeihridjqiahta brdloaq,idjldihoibxtqihordloaqridjloixoq,
njqoidjqivxgkijlrivqqoitqax.qtqg,ioxdilirhoueqibltyixci.hxeqoaqihr
ghraqtohveq;idjqibloivqhouirdltyigqlgm

Djqinjxeqialelbhdk,inhdjidjqicleehouicxtbixciBlaqk,inlriselhoek
gqrathqgictxbidjqirjhsmiTlhrhouilishqtahouirjthqy—“Djqi.hle!idjqi.hle!”
Ulvthqeialeeqgixccidjqidqttxt-rdthayqoiatqnictxbidjqic tdjqtij odhouixc
djqinjleqmiDjhridqtthveqiq.qodiaexdjqgidjqiltajlouqeinhdjilggqg
hoce qoaq;ivqal rqijhriatqg ex righrahseqrivqehq.qgidjldijqijlg
rsqahchaleekicxtq-loox oaqgihd,ihordqlgixcixoekiblyhouiliuqoqtle
stxsjqak,injhajilokixoqibhujdijl.qigxoq,ilogirxijl.qiajloaqgidxijhdixoq
xciblokibltyrihoidjqinhgqibltuhoileexnqgmiJqivqalbqiliolbqeqrridqttxt
dxidjqirjhsm

Blkjqnijl.houiaxoae gqgijhriolttldhxo,iLjlvis dir ajiz qrdhxoridxijhb,
djldidjqirdtlouqtialsdlhoiax egioxdicxtvqltihoz hthouinjqdjqtijq
hodqogqgidxij odidjqiNjhdqiNjleq,ihcixssxtd ohdkirjx egixccqtmiDxinjhaj
Ljlvilornqtqg—“Lkqm”iRdtlhujdnlk,idjqo,iUlvthqeixoaqibxtqirdltdqgidx
jhricqqd,iuelthoui sxoidjqixegiblo,ilogi.qjqbqodekiqpaelhbqg,inhdj
gxnonltgisxhodqgichouqt—“Djhoy,idjhoyixcidjqivelrsjqbqt—gqlg,ilogigxno
djqtq!—vqnltqixcidjqivelrsjqbqt’riqog!”

Ljlvirdxehgekid toqgilrhgq;idjqoirlhgidxiBlkjqn,i“Alsdlho,iHijl.qif rd
vqdjx ujdibqixcibkieqddqt-vlu;idjqtqihrilieqddqticxtixoqixcidjk
xcchaqtr,ihciHibhrdlyqioxdmiRdltv ay,iexxyix.qtidjqivlum”

Q.qtkinjleq-rjhsidlyqrix diliuxxgekio bvqtixcieqddqtricxti.lthx r
rjhsr,injxrqigqeh.qtkidxidjqisqtrxoridxinjxbidjqkiblkivqilggtqrrqg,
gqsqogri sxoidjqibqtqiajloaqixciqoax odqthouidjqbihoidjqicx tixaqlorm
Dj r,ibxrdieqddqtrioq.qtitqlajidjqhtiblty;ilogiblokiltqixoekitqaqh.qg
lcdqtilddlhohouiloiluqixcidnxixtidjtqqikqltrixtibxtqm

RxxoiRdltv ayitqd toqginhdjilieqddqtihoijhrijlogmiHdinlrirxtqek
d bveqg,iglbs,ilogiax.qtqginhdjilig ee,irsxddqg,iutqqoibx eg,iho
axorqz qoaqixcivqhouiyqsdihoiligltyiexayqtixcidjqialvhomiXcir ajil
eqddqt,iGqldjijhbrqecibhujdinqeeijl.qivqqoidjqisxrd-vxkm

“Alo’rdioxditqlgihd?”iathqgiLjlvmi“Uh.qihdibq,iblomiLkq,ilkq,ihd’riv d
lighbiratlne;—njld’ridjhr?”iLrijqinlrird gkhouihdix d,iRdltv ayidxxyil
exouia ddhou-rslgqisxeq,iloginhdjijhriyohcqirehujdekirsehdidjqiqog,idx
horqtdidjqieqddqtidjqtq,ilogihoidjldinlk,ijlogihdidxidjqivxld,inhdjx d
hdriaxbhouilokiaexrqtidxidjqirjhsm

Bqlodhbq,iLjlvijxeghouidjqieqddqt,ib ddqtqg,i“BtmiJlt—kqr,iBtmiJlttk—(l
nxblo’rishookijlog,—djqiblo’rinhcq,iH’eeinluqt)—Lkq—BtmiJlttkiBlaqk,
RjhsiFqtxvxlb;—njkihd’riBlaqk,ilogijq’rigqlg!”

“Sxxticqeexn!isxxticqeexn!ilogictxbijhrinhcq,”irhujqgiBlkjqn;i“v dieqd
bqijl.qihdm”

“Olk,iyqqsihdidjkrqec,”iathqgiUlvthqeidxiLjlv;i“djx iltdirxxoiuxhou
djldinlkm”

“A trqridjtxddeqidjqq!”ikqeeqgiLjlvmi“AlsdlhoiBlkjqn,irdlogivkioxnidx
tqaqh.qihd”;ilogidlyhouidjqicldleibhrrh.qictxbiRdltv ay’rijlogr,ijq
al ujdihdihoidjqirehdixcidjqisxeq,ilogitqlajqgihdix.qtidxnltgridjq
vxldmiV dilrijqighgirx,idjqixltrbqoiqpsqadlodekigqrhrdqgictxbitxnhou;
djqivxldigthcdqgiliehddeqidxnltgridjqirjhs’rirdqto;irxidjld,ilrihcivk
bluha,idjqieqddqtir ggqoekitlouqgilexouinhdjiUlvthqe’riqluqtijlogmiJq
ae dajqgihdihoiloihordlod,irqhwqgidjqivxld-yohcq,ilogihbslehouidjq
eqddqtixoihd,irqodihdidj riexlgqgivlayihodxidjqirjhsmiHdicqeeildiLjlv’r
cqqdmiDjqoiUlvthqeirjthqyqgix didxijhriaxbtlgqridxiuh.qinlkinhdjidjqht
xltr,ilogihoidjldiblooqtidjqib dhox rivxlditlshgekirjxdilnlkictxbidjq
Sqz xgm

Lr,ilcdqtidjhrihodqte gq,idjqirqlbqoitqr bqgidjqhtinxtyi sxoidjqiflayqd
xcidjqinjleq,iblokirdtlouqidjhourinqtqijhodqgihoitqcqtqoaqidxidjhrinheg
lcclhtm


AJLSDQTi72miDjqiBxoyqk-Txsqm

Hoidjqid b ed x riv rhoqrrixcia ddhou-hoilogilddqoghouidxilinjleq,
djqtqihrib ajit oohouivlaynltgrilogicxtnltgrilbxouidjqiatqnmiOxnijlogr
ltqinlodqgijqtq,ilogidjqoilulhoijlogriltqinlodqgidjqtqmiDjqtqihriox
rdlkhouihoilokixoqiselaq;icxtildixoqilogidjqirlbqidhbqiq.qtkdjhouijlr
dxivqigxoqiq.qtknjqtqmiHdihrib ajidjqirlbqinhdjijhbinjxiqogql.xtridjq
gqrathsdhxoixcidjqiraqoqmiNqib rdioxnitqdtlaqix tinlkiliehddeqmiHdinlr
bqodhxoqgidjldi sxoichtrdivtqlyhouiutx ogihoidjqinjleq’rivlay,idjq
ve vvqt-jxxyinlrihorqtdqgihodxidjqixthuholeijxeqidjqtqia divkidjq
rslgqrixcidjqibldqrmiV dijxnighgirxiae brkiloginqhujdkiliblrrilridjld
rlbqijxxyiuqdichpqgihoidjldijxeq?iHdinlrihorqtdqgidjqtqivkibk
sltdha elticthqogiZ qqz qu,injxrqig dkihdinlr,ilrijltsxxoqqt,idx
gqraqogi sxoidjqibxordqt’rivlayicxtidjqirsqahleis tsxrqitqcqttqgidxm
V dihoi.qtkiblokialrqr,iahta brdloaqritqz htqidjldidjqijltsxxoqqtirjlee
tqblhoixoidjqinjleqidheeidjqinjxeqiceqorhouixtirdthsshouixsqtldhxoihr
axoae gqgmiDjqinjleq,ivqihdixvrqt.qg,iehqrilebxrdiqodhtqekir vbqtuqg,
qpaqsdhouidjqihbbqghldqisltdrixsqtldqgi sxomiRxigxnoidjqtq,irxbqidqo
cqqdivqexnidjqieq.qeixcidjqigqay,idjqisxxtijltsxxoqqticex ogqtrilvx d,
jlecixoidjqinjleqilogijlecihoidjqinldqt,ilridjqi.lrdiblrritq.xe.qriehyq
lidtqlg-bheeivqoqldjijhbmiXoidjqixaalrhxoihoiz qrdhxo,iZ qqz quichu tqg
hoidjqiJhujelogiaxrd bq—lirjhtdilogirxayr—hoinjhajidxibkiqkqr,ild
eqlrd,ijqilssqltqgidxi oaxbbxoilg.lodluq;ilogioxixoqijlgilivqddqt
ajloaqidxixvrqt.qijhb,ilrinheeistqrqodekivqirqqom

Vqhouidjqirl.luq’rivxnrblo,idjldihr,idjqisqtrxoinjxis eeqgidjqivxn-xlt
hoijhrivxldi(djqirqaxogixoqictxbicxtnltg),ihdinlribkiajqqtc eig dkidx
lddqogi sxoijhbinjheqidlyhouidjldijltg-ratlvveqiratlbveqi sxoidjqigqlg
njleq’rivlaymiKx ijl.qirqqoiHdlehloixtulo-vxkrijxeghouiligloahou-lsqivk
liexouiaxtgmiF rdirx,ictxbidjqirjhs’rirdqqsirhgq,ighgiHijxegiZ qqz qu
gxnoidjqtqihoidjqirql,ivkinjldihridqajohaleekialeeqgihoidjqichrjqtkil
bxoyqk-txsq,ilddlajqgidxilirdtxouirdthsixcialo.lrivqedqgitx ogijhr
nlhrdm

Hdinlrilij bxtx rekisqthex riv rhoqrricxtivxdjixci rmiCxt,ivqcxtqinq
stxaqqgic tdjqt,ihdib rdivqirlhgidjldidjqibxoyqk-txsqinlriclrdildivxdj
qogr;iclrdidxiZ qqz qu’rivtxlgialo.lrivqed,ilogiclrdidxibkiolttxn
eqldjqtixoqmiRxidjldicxtivqddqtixticxtinxtrq,inqidnx,icxtidjqidhbq,
nqtqinqggqg;ilogirjx egisxxtiZ qqz quirhoyidxithrqioxibxtq,idjqoivxdj
 rluqilogijxoxtigqblogqg,idjldihordqlgixcia ddhouidjqiaxtg,ihdirjx eg
gtluibqigxnoihoijhrinlyqmiRx,idjqo,iloiqexouldqgiRhlbqrqiehuld tq
 ohdqgi rmiZ qqz quinlribkixnoihorqsltlveqidnhoivtxdjqt;ioxtiax egiH
lokinlkiuqdithgixcidjqiglouqtx riehlvhehdhqrinjhajidjqijqbsqoivxog
qodlheqgm

RxirdtxouekilogibqdlsjkrhaleekighgiHiaxoaqh.qixcibkirhd ldhxoidjqo,
djldinjheqiqltoqrdekinldajhouijhribxdhxor,iHirqqbqgighrdhoadekidx
sqtaqh.qidjldibkixnoihogh.hg lehdkinlrioxnibqtuqgihoilifxhodirdxay
axbslokixcidnx;idjldibkictqqinheeijlgitqaqh.qgilibxtdleinx og;ilogidjld
loxdjqt’ribhrdlyqixtibhrcxtd oqibhujdise ouqihooxaqodibqihodxi obqthdqg
ghrlrdqtilogigqldjmiDjqtqcxtq,iHirlnidjldijqtqinlrilirxtdixc
hodqttquo bihoiStx.hgqoaq;icxtihdriq.qo-jlogqgiqz hdkioq.qtiax egijl.q
rxiutxrriloihof rdhaqmiLogikqdirdheeic tdjqtisxogqthou—njheqiHifqtyqg
jhbioxnilogidjqoictxbivqdnqqoidjqinjleqilogirjhs,injhajinx egidjtqldqo
dxiflbijhb—rdheeic tdjqtisxogqthou,iHirlk,iHirlnidjldidjhrirhd ldhxoixc
bhoqinlridjqistqahrqirhd ldhxoixciq.qtkibxtdleidjldivtqldjqr;ixoek,iho
bxrdialrqr,ijq,ixoqinlkixtixdjqt,ijlridjhriRhlbqrqiaxooqphxoinhdjil
se tlehdkixcixdjqtibxtdlermiHcikx tivloyqtivtqlyr,ikx irols;ihcikx t
lsxdjqaltkivkibhrdlyqirqogrikx isxhrxoihoikx tisheer,ikx ighqmiDt q,
kx iblkirlkidjld,ivkiqpaqqghouial dhxo,ikx iblkisxrrhvekiqralsqidjqrq
logidjqib edhd ghox rixdjqtiq.heiajloaqrixciehcqmiV dijlogeqiZ qqz qu’r
bxoyqk-txsqijqqgc eekilriHinx eg,irxbqdhbqrijqifqtyqgihdirx,idjldiH
albqi.qtkioqltirehghouix.qtvxltgmiOxtiax egiHisxrrhvekicxtuqdidjld,igx
njldiHinx eg,iHixoekijlgidjqibloluqbqodixcixoqiqogixcihdm*

*Djqibxoyqk-txsqihricx ogihoileeinjleqtr;iv dihdinlrixoekihoidjqiSqz xg
djldidjqibxoyqkilogijhrijxegqtinqtqiq.qtidhqgidxuqdjqtmiDjhr
hbstx.qbqodi sxoidjqixthuholei rluqinlrihodtxg aqgivkioxieqrriliblo
djloiRd vv,ihoixtgqtidxilccxtgidjqihbsqtheeqgijltsxxoqqtidjqirdtxouqrd
sxrrhveqiu ltlodqqicxtidjqiclhdjc eoqrrilogi.huheloaqixcijhr
bxoyqk-txsqijxegqtm

Hijl.qijhodqgidjldiHinx egixcdqoifqtyisxxtiZ qqz quictxbivqdnqqoidjq
njleqilogidjqirjhs—njqtqijqinx egixaalrhxoleekiclee,ictxbidjqihoaqrrlod
txeehouilogirnlkhouixcivxdjmiV didjhrinlrioxdidjqixoekiflbbhouifqxsltgk
jqinlriqpsxrqgidxmi olssleeqgivkidjqiblrrlatqiblgqi sxoidjqbig thouidjq
ohujd,idjqirjltyrioxnictqrjekilogibxtqiyqqoekilee tqgivkidjqivqcxtq
sqodivexxginjhajivquloidxicexnictxbidjqialtalrr—djqitlvhgiatqld tqr
rnltbqgitx ogihdiehyqivqqrihoilivqqjh.qm

LogithujdihoilbxouidjxrqirjltyrinlriZ qqz qu;injxixcdqois rjqgidjqb
lrhgqinhdjijhricex ogqthouicqqdmiLidjhouiledxuqdjqtihoatqghveqinqtqihd
oxdidjldilddtladqgivkir ajistqkilriligqlginjleq,idjqixdjqtnhrq
bhraqeeloqx rekialtoh.xtx rirjltyinheeirqegxbidx ajiliblom

Oq.qtdjqeqrr,ihdiblkinqeeivqivqehq.qgidjldirhoaqidjqkijl.qir ajil
tl.qox richouqtihoidjqishq,ihdihrigqqbqgiv dinhrqidxiexxyirjltsidx
djqbmiLaaxtghouek,ivqrhgqridjqibxoyqk-txsq,inhdjinjhajiHioxnilogidjqo
fqtyqgidjqisxxticqeexnictxbidxxiaexrqili.hahohdkidxidjqiblnixcinjld
rqqbqgilisqa ehltekicqtxahx rirjlty—jqinlristx.hgqginhdjirdheeiloxdjqt
stxdqadhxomiR rsqogqgix.qtidjqirhgqihoixoqixcidjqirdluqr,iDlrjdquxilog
Gluuxxiaxodho leekicex thrjqgix.qtijhrijqlgiliax seqixciyqqo
njleq-rslgqr,injqtqnhdjidjqkirel ujdqtqgilriblokirjltyrilridjqkiax eg
tqlajmiDjhristxaqg tqixcidjqhtr,idxivqir tq,inlri.qtkighrhodqtqrdqgilog
vqoq.xeqodixcidjqbmiDjqkibqlodiZ qqz qu’rivqrdijlsshoqrr,iHilgbhd;iv d
hoidjqhtijlrdkiwqleidxivqcthqogijhb,ilogictxbidjqiahta brdloaqidjld
vxdjijqilogidjqirjltyrinqtqildidhbqrijlecijhggqoivkidjqivexxg-b ggeqg
nldqt,idjxrqihoghratqqdirslgqrixcidjqhtrinx egiaxbqioqltqtilbs dldhouil
equidjloilidlhemiV disxxtiZ qqz qu,iHir ssxrq,irdtlhohouilogiulrshou
djqtqinhdjidjldiutqldihtxoijxxy—sxxtiZ qqz qu,iHir ssxrq,ixoekistlkqg
dxijhriKxfx,ilogiul.qi sijhriehcqihodxidjqijlogrixcijhriuxgrm

Nqee,inqee,ibkigqltiaxbtlgqilogidnho-vtxdjqt,idjx ujdiH,ilriHigtqniho
logidjqoirelayqgixccidjqitxsqidxiq.qtkirnqeeixcidjqirql—njldiblddqtr
hd,ilcdqtilee?iLtqikx ioxdidjqistqahx rihbluqixciqlajilogileeixci ribqo
hoidjhrinjlehouinxteg?iDjldi orx ogqgixaqloikx iulrsiho,ihriEhcq;idjxrq
rjltyr,ikx ticxqr;idjxrqirslgqr,ikx ticthqogr;iloginjldivqdnqqoirjltyr
logirslgqrikx iltqihoilirlgishayeqilogisqthe,isxxtielgm

V diax tluq!idjqtqihriuxxgiajqqtihoirdxtqicxtikx ,iZ qqz qumiCxtioxn,
lrinhdjive qiehsrilogivexxg-rjxdiqkqridjqiqpjl rdqgirl.luqildielrd
aehbvri sidjqiajlhorilogirdlogrileeigthsshouilogiho.xe odlthek
dtqbvehouix.qtidjqirhgq;idjqirdqnltgilg.loaqr,iloginhdjilivqoq.xeqod,
axorxeldxtkiueloaqijlogrijhb—njld?iRxbqijxdiAxuola?iOx!ijlogrijhb,ikq
uxgr!ijlogrijhbilia sixcidqshgiuhouqtiloginldqt!

“Uhouqt?iGxiHirbqeeiuhouqt?”ir rshahx rekilryqgiRd vv,iaxbhouioqltm
“Kqr,idjhrib rdivqiuhouqt,”isqqthouihodxidjqilrikqdi odlrdqgia smiDjqo
rdloghouilrihcihoatqg ex ricxtilinjheq,ijqialebekinleyqgidxnltgridjq
lrdxohrjqgirdqnltgirexnekirlkhou,i“Uhouqt?iuhouqt?iloginheeikx ijl.q
djqiuxxgoqrridxidqeeibq,iBtmiGx uj-Vxk,injqtqiehqridjqi.htd qixc
uhouqt?iUhouqt!ihriuhouqtidjqirxtdixcic qeikx i rq,iGx uj-vxk,idx
yhogeqilichtqihoidjhrirjh.qthouialoohvle?iUhouqt!—njldidjqigq.heihr
uhouqt?iRql-axle?ichtqnxxg?—e ahcqtibldajqr?—dhogqt?—u osxngqt?—njld
djqigq.heihriuhouqt,iHirlk,idjldikx ixccqtidjhria sidxix tisxxt
Z qqz quijqtqm”

“DjqtqihrirxbqiroqlyhouiDqbsqtloaqiRxahqdkibx.qbqodilvx didjhr
v rhoqrr,”ijqir ggqoekilggqg,ioxnilsstxlajhouiRdltv ay,injxijlgif rd
axbqictxbicxtnltgmi“Nheeikx iexxyildidjldiyloolyho,irht:irbqeeixcihd,
hcikx iseqlrqm”iDjqoinldajhouidjqibldq’riax odqoloaq,ijqilggqg,i“Djq
rdqnltg,iBtmiRdltv ay,ijlgidjqiclaqidxixccqtidjldialexbqeilogiflelsidx
Z qqz qu,idjqtq,idjhrihordlodixccidjqinjleqmiHridjqirdqnltgilo
lsxdjqaltk,irht?ilogiblkiHilryinjqdjqtidjhrihridjqirxtdixcivhddqtrivk
njhajijqivexnrivlayidjqiehcqihodxilijlec-gtxnoqgiblo?”

“Hidt rdioxd,”irlhgiRdltv ay,i“hdihrisxxtird cciqox ujm”

“Lkq,ilkq,irdqnltg,”iathqgiRd vv,i“nq’eeidqlajikx idxigt uil
jltsxxoqqt;ioxoqixcikx tilsxdjqaltk’ribqghahoqijqtq;ikx inlodidxisxhrxo
 r,igxikq?iKx ijl.qiuxdix dihor tloaqrixoix tieh.qriloginlodidxib tgqt
 rilee,ilogisxayqdidjqistxaqqgr,igxikq?”

“Hdinlrioxdibq,”iathqgiGx uj-Vxk,i“hdinlriL odiAjlthdkidjldivtx ujdidjq
uhouqtixoivxltg;ilogivlgqibqioq.qtiuh.qidjqijltsxxoqqtrilokirshthdr,
v dixoekidjhriuhouqt-f v—rxirjqialeeqgihdm”

“Uhouqt-f v!ikx iuhouqtekitlrale!idlyqidjld!ilogit oilexouinhdjikqidx
djqiexayqtr,ilogiuqdirxbqdjhouivqddqtmiHijxsqiHigxioxintxou,iBtm
Rdltv aymiHdihridjqialsdlho’rixtgqtr—utxuicxtidjqijltsxxoqqtixoil
njleqm”

“Qox uj,”itqsehqgiRdltv ay,i“xoekigxo’dijhdijhbilulho,iv d—”

“Xj,iHioq.qtij tdinjqoiHijhd,iqpaqsdinjqoiHijhdilinjleqixtirxbqdjhouixc
djldirxtd;ilogidjhricqeexn’rilinqlwqemiNjldinqtqikx ilvx dirlkhou,
rht?”

“Xoekidjhr:iuxigxnoinhdjijhb,ilogiuqdinjldidjx inlodqrdidjkrqecm”

NjqoiRd vvitqlssqltqg,ijqialbqinhdjiligltyicelryihoixoqijlog,ilogil
rxtdixcidql-alggkihoidjqixdjqtmiDjqichtrdiaxodlhoqgirdtxouirshthdr,ilog
nlrijlogqgidxiZ qqz qu;idjqirqaxoginlriL odiAjlthdk’riuhcd,ilogidjld
nlrictqqekiuh.qoidxidjqinl.qrm


AJLSDQTi73miRd vvilogiCelryiyheeiliThujdiNjleq;ilogiDjqoiJl.qiliDley
x.qtiJhbm

Hdib rdivqivxtoqihoibhogidjldileeidjhridhbqinqijl.qiliRsqtbiNjleq’r
stxghuhx rijqlgijlouhouidxidjqiSqz xg’rirhgqmiV dinqib rdieqdihd
axodho qijlouhouidjqtqilinjheqidheeinqialoiuqdiliajloaqidxilddqogidx
hdmiCxtidjqistqrqodixdjqtiblddqtristqrr,ilogidjqivqrdinqialoigxioxnicxt
djqijqlg,ihridxistlkijql.qoidjqidlayeqriblkijxegm

Oxn,ig thouidjqislrdiohujdilogicxtqoxxo,idjqiSqz xgijlgiutlg leek
gthcdqgihodxilirql,injhaj,ivkihdrixaalrhxoleisldajqrixcikqeexnivthd,
ul.qi o r leidxyqorixcidjqi.hahohdkixciThujdiNjleqr,ilirsqahqrixcidjq
Eq.hldjloidjldiv dicqnir ssxrqgidxivqildidjhrisltdha eltidhbqie tyhou
loknjqtqioqltmiLogidjx ujileeijlogriaxbbxoekighrglhoqgidjqialsd tqixc
djxrqihocqthxtiatqld tqr;ilogidjx ujidjqiSqz xginlrioxdiaxbbhrrhxoqgidx
at hrqicxtidjqbildilee,ilogidjx ujirjqijlgislrrqgio bvqtrixcidjqbioqlt
djqiAtxwqddrinhdjx diexnqthouilivxld;ikqdioxnidjldiliRsqtbiNjleqijlg
vqqoivtx ujdilexourhgqilogivqjqlgqg,idxidjqir tsthrqixcilee,idjq
loox oaqbqodinlriblgqidjldiliThujdiNjleqirjx egivqialsd tqgidjldiglk,
hcixssxtd ohdkixccqtqgm

OxtinlridjhriexouinlodhoumiDleeirsx drinqtqirqqoidxieqqnltg;ilogidnx
vxldr,iRd vv’rilogiCelry’r,inqtqigqdlajqgihois tr hdmiS eehouic tdjqt
logic tdjqtilnlk,idjqkildielrdivqalbqilebxrdiho.hrhveqidxidjqibqoild
djqiblrd-jqlgmiV dir ggqoekihoidjqighrdloaq,idjqkirlniliutqldijqlsixc
d b ed x rinjhdqinldqt,ilogirxxoilcdqtioqnrialbqictxbilexcdidjldixoqixt
vxdjidjqivxldrib rdivqiclrdmiLoihodqt.leislrrqgilogidjqivxldrinqtqiho
selhoirhujd,ihoidjqiladixcivqhouigtluuqgithujdidxnltgridjqirjhsivkidjq
dxnhouinjleqmiRxiaexrqighgidjqibxordqtiaxbqidxidjqij ee,idjldildichtrd
hdirqqbqgilrihcijqibqlodihdiblehaq;iv dir ggqoekiuxhouigxnoihoil
blqerdtxb,inhdjhoidjtqqitxgrixcidjqiseloyr,ijqinjxeekighrlssqltqgictxb
.hqn,ilrihcigh.houi ogqtidjqiyqqemi“A d,ia d!”inlridjqiatkictxbidjq
rjhsidxidjqivxldr,injhaj,icxtixoqihordlod,irqqbqgixoidjqisxhodixcivqhou
vtx ujdinhdjiligqlgekiglrjilulhordidjqi.qrrqe’rirhgqmiV dijl.houiseqodk
xciehoqikqdihoidjqid vr,ilogidjqinjleqioxdirx oghoui.qtkitlshgek,idjqk
slhgix dilv ogloaqixcitxsq,ilogildidjqirlbqidhbqis eeqginhdjileeidjqht
bhujdirxilridxiuqdiljqlgixcidjqirjhsmiCxtilicqnibho dqridjqirdt uueq
nlrihodqorqekiathdhale;icxtinjheqidjqkirdheeirelayqgix didjqidhujdqoqg
ehoqihoixoqightqadhxo,ilogirdheeisehqgidjqhtixltrihoiloxdjqt,idjq
axodqoghouirdtlhoidjtqldqoqgidxidlyqidjqbi ogqtmiV dihdinlrixoekilicqn
cqqdilg.loaqidjqkirx ujdidxiulhomiLogidjqkird ayidxihdidheeidjqkighg
ulhoihd;injqoihordlodek,ilirnhcdidtqbxtinlricqedit oohouiehyqiehujdohou
lexouidjqiyqqe,ilridjqirdtlhoqgiehoq,iratlshouivqoqldjidjqirjhs,
r ggqoekitxrqidxi.hqni ogqtijqtivxnr,irolsshouilogiz h.qthou;ilogirx
cehouhouixccihdrigthsshour,idjldidjqigtxsricqeeiehyqivhdrixcivtxyqo
uelrrixoidjqinldqt,injheqidjqinjleqivqkxogilerxitxrqidxirhujd,ilogixoaq
bxtqidjqivxldrinqtqictqqidxicekmiV didjqicluuqginjleqilvldqgijhrirsqqg,
logivehogekiledqthouijhriax trq,inqoditx ogidjqirdqtoixcidjqirjhs
dxnhouidjqidnxivxldrilcdqtijhb,irxidjldidjqkisqtcxtbqgiliaxbseqdq
ahta hdm

Bqlodhbq,idjqkijl eqgibxtqilogibxtqi sxoidjqhtiehoqr,idheeiaexrq
celoyhouijhbixoivxdjirhgqr,iRd vvilornqtqgiCelryinhdjieloaqicxtieloaq;
logidj ritx ogilogitx ogidjqiSqz xgidjqivlddeqinqod,injheqidjq
b edhd gqrixcirjltyridjldijlgivqcxtqirn bitx ogidjqiRsqtbiNjleq’rivxgk,
t rjqgidxidjqictqrjivexxgidjldinlrirsheeqg,idjhtrdhekigthoyhouildiq.qtk
oqniulrj,ilridjqiqluqtiHrtlqehdqrighgildidjqioqniv trdhouicx odlhor
djldisx tqgictxbidjqirbhddqoitxaym

Ldielrdijhrirsx diutqnidjhay,iloginhdjilicthujdc eitxeeilogi.xbhd,ijq
d toqgi sxoijhrivlayiliaxtsrqm

Njheqidjqidnxijqlgrbqoinqtqiqouluqgihoiblyhouiclrdiaxtgridxijhrice yqr,
logihoixdjqtinlkriuqddhouidjqiblrrihoitqlghoqrricxtidxnhou,irxbq
axo.qtrldhxoiqor qgivqdnqqoidjqbm

“Hinxogqtinjldidjqixegibloinlodrinhdjidjhrie bsixcicx eieltg,”irlhg
Rd vv,ioxdinhdjx dirxbqighru rdildidjqidjx ujdixcijl.houidxigxinhdjirx
huoxveqilieq.hldjlom

“Nlodrinhdjihd?”irlhgiCelry,iaxhehouirxbqirsltqiehoqihoidjqivxld’rivxn,
“ghgikx ioq.qtijqltidjldidjqirjhsinjhajiv dixoaqijlriliRsqtbiNjleq’r
jqlgijxhrdqgixoijqtirdltvxltgirhgq,ilogildidjqirlbqidhbqiliThujd
Njleq’rixoidjqieltvxltg;ighgikx ioq.qtijqlt,iRd vv,idjldidjldirjhsialo
oq.qtilcdqtnltgrialsrhwq?”

“Njkioxd?

“Higxo’diyoxn,iv diHijqltgidjldiulbvxuqiujxrdixciliCqgleeljirlkhouirx,
logijqirqqbridxiyoxnileeilvx dirjhsr’iajltbrmiV diHirxbqdhbqridjhoy
jq’eeiajltbidjqirjhsidxioxiuxxgildielrdmiHigxo’dijleciehyqidjldiajls,
Rd vvmiGhgikx iq.qtioxdhaqijxnidjldid ryixcijhrihrilirxtdixcialt.qg
hodxilirolyq’rijqlg,iRd vv?”

“Rhoyijhb!iHioq.qtiexxyildijhbildilee;iv dihciq.qtiHiuqdiliajloaqixcil
gltyiohujd,ilogijqirdloghouijltgivkidjqiv enltyr,ilogioxixoqivk;iexxy
gxnoidjqtq,iCelry”—sxhodhouihodxidjqirqlinhdjilisqa ehltibxdhxoixcivxdj
jlogr—“Lkq,inheeiH!iCelry,iHidlyqidjldiCqgleeljidxivqidjqigq.heiho
ghru hrqmiGxikx ivqehq.qidjldiaxayilogiv eeirdxtkilvx dijhrijl.houivqqo
rdxnqgilnlkixoivxltgirjhs?iJq’ridjqigq.he,iHirlkmiDjqitqlrxoinjkikx 
gxo’dirqqijhridlhe,ihrivqal rqijqid ayrihdi six dixcirhujd;ijqialtthqr
hdiaxheqgilnlkihoijhrisxayqd,iHiu qrrmiVelrdijhb!ioxnidjldiHidjhoyixc
hd,ijq’rilenlkrinlodhouixly bidxird ccihodxidjqidxqrixcijhrivxxdrm”

“Jqireqqsrihoijhrivxxdr,igxo’dijq?iJqijlro’diuxdilokijlbbxay;iv diH’.q
rqqoijhbielkixciohujdrihoiliaxheixcithuuhoum”

“Oxigx vd,ilogihd’rivqal rqixcijhria trqgidlhe;ijqiaxherihdigxno,igxikq
rqq,ihoidjqiqkqixcidjqithuuhoum”

“Njld’ridjqixegibloijl.qirxib ajidxigxinhdjijhbicxt?”

“Rdthyhoui silirnlsixtilivltulho,iHir ssxrqm”

“Vltulho?—lvx dinjld?”

“Njk,igxikqirqq,idjqixegibloihrijltgivqodilcdqtidjldiNjhdqiNjleq,ilog
djqigq.heidjqtqihridtkhouidxiaxbqitx ogijhb,ilogiuqdijhbidxirnlsilnlk
jhrirhe.qtinldaj,ixtijhrirx e,ixtirxbqdjhouixcidjldirxtd,ilogidjqo
jq’eeir ttqogqtiBxvkiGhaym”

“Sxxj!iRd vv,ikx iltqirykeltyhou;ijxnialoiCqgleeljigxidjld?”

“Higxo’diyoxn,iCelry,iv didjqigq.heihrilia thx riajls,ilogilinhayqg
xoq,iHidqeeikqmiNjk,idjqkirlkilrijxnijqinqodilirl odqthouihodxidjqixeg
celu-rjhsixoaq,irnhdajhouijhridlheilvx digq.hehrjiqlrkilog
uqodeqbloehyq,ilogihoz hthouihcidjqixegiux.qtoxtinlrildijxbqmiNqee,ijq
nlrildijxbq,ilogilryqgidjqigq.heinjldijqinlodqgmiDjqigq.he,irnhdajhou
jhrijxxcr,i silogirlkr,i‘HinlodiFxjom’i‘Njldicxt?’irlkridjqixeg
ux.qtoxtmi‘Njldiv rhoqrrihridjldixcikx tr,’irlkridjqigq.he,iuqddhou
blg,—‘Hinlodidxi rqijhbm’i‘Dlyqijhb,’irlkridjqiux.qtoxt—logivkidjq
Extg,iCelry,ihcidjqigq.heighgo’diuh.qiFxjoidjqiLrhldhaiajxeqtlivqcxtq
jqiuxdidjtx ujinhdjijhb,iH’eeiqldidjhrinjleqihoixoqibx djc emiV diexxy
rjlts—lho’dikx ileeitqlgkidjqtq?iNqee,idjqo,is eeiljqlg,ilogieqd’riuqd
djqinjleqilexourhgqm”

“HidjhoyiHitqbqbvqtirxbqir ajirdxtkilrikx inqtqidqeehou,”irlhgiCelry,
njqoildielrdidjqidnxivxldrinqtqirexnekilg.loahouinhdjidjqhtiv tgqo
dxnltgridjqirjhs,i“v diHialo’ditqbqbvqtinjqtqm”

“DjtqqiRslohltgr?iLg.qod tqrixcidjxrqidjtqqivexxgk-bhogqgirxeglgxqr?
Ghgikqitqlgihdidjqtq,iCelry?iHiu qrrikqighg?”

“Ox:ioq.qtirlnir ajilivxxy;ijqltgixcihd,idjx ujmiV dioxn,idqeeibq,
Rd vv,igxikx ir ssxrqidjldidjldigq.heikx inlrirsqlyhouixcif rdioxn,inlr
djqirlbqikx irlkihrioxnixoivxltgidjqiSqz xg?”

“LbiHidjqirlbqibloidjldijqesqgiyheeidjhrinjleq?iGxqro’didjqigq.heieh.q
cxtiq.qt;injxiq.qtijqltgidjldidjqigq.heinlrigqlg?iGhgikx iq.qtirqqilok
sltrxoilinqlthouibx tohouicxtidjqigq.he?iLogihcidjqigq.heijlril
eldaj-yqkidxiuqdihodxidjqilgbhtle’rialvho,igxo’dikx ir ssxrqijqialo
atlneihodxilisxtdjxeq?iDqeeibqidjld,iBtmiCelry?”

“Jxnixegigxikx ir ssxrqiCqgleeljihr,iRd vv?”

“Gxikx irqqidjldiblhoblrdidjqtq?”isxhodhouidxidjqirjhs;i“nqee,idjld’r
djqichu tqixoq;ioxnidlyqileeidjqijxxsrihoidjqiSqz xg’rijxeg,ilogirdthou
lexouihoilitxninhdjidjldiblrd,icxtix ujdr,igxikx irqq;inqee,idjld
nx ego’divquhoidxivqiCqgleelj’riluqmiOxtileeidjqiaxxsqtrihoiatqldhxo
ax ego’dirjxnijxxsriqox ujidxiblyqix ujdriqox ujm”

“V dirqqijqtq,iRd vv,iHidjx ujdikx iliehddeqivxlrdqgif rdioxn,idjldikx 
bqlodidxiuh.qiCqgleeljilirql-dxrr,ihcikx iuxdiliuxxgiajloaqmiOxn,ihc
jq’rirxixegilrileeidjxrqijxxsrixcikx triaxbqidx,ilogihcijqihriuxhouidx
eh.qicxtiq.qt,injldiuxxginheeihdigxidxishdajijhbix.qtvxltg—dqeeibq
djld?

“Uh.qijhbiliuxxgig ayhou,ilokjxnm”

“V dijq’giatlneivlaym”

“G ayijhbilulho;ilogiyqqsig ayhouijhbm”

“R ssxrqijqirjx egidlyqihdihodxijhrijqlgidxig ayikx ,idjx uj—kqr,ilog
gtxnoikx —njldidjqo?”

“Hirjx egiehyqidxirqqijhbidtkihd;iH’giuh.qijhbir ajilislhtixcivelay
qkqridjldijqinx ego’digltqidxirjxnijhriclaqihoidjqilgbhtle’rialvho
lulhoicxtiliexouinjheq,ieqdilexoqigxnoihoidjqixtexsidjqtq,injqtqijq
eh.qr,ilogijqtqlvx drixoidjqi ssqtigqayrinjqtqijqiroqlyrirxib ajmiGlbo
djqigq.he,iCelry;irxikx ir ssxrqiH’bilctlhgixcidjqigq.he?iNjx’rilctlhg
xcijhb,iqpaqsdidjqixegiux.qtoxtinjxigltqro’dialdajijhbilogis dijhbiho
gx veq-gltvhqr,ilrijqigqrqt.qr,iv dieqdrijhbiuxilvx diyhgolsshou
sqxseq;ilkq,ilogirhuoqgilivxoginhdjijhb,idjldileeidjqisqxseqidjqigq.he
yhgolssqg,ijq’gitxlrdicxtijhb?iDjqtq’riliux.qtoxt!”

“Gxikx ir ssxrqiCqgleeljinlodridxiyhgolsiAlsdlhoiLjlv?”

“GxiHir ssxrqihd?iKx ’eeiyoxnihdivqcxtqiexou,iCelrymiV diHilbiuxhouioxn
dxiyqqsilirjltsiexxy-x dixoijhb;ilogihciHirqqilokdjhoui.qtkir rshahx r
uxhouixo,iH’eeif rdidlyqijhbivkidjqiolsqixcijhrioqay,ilogirlk—Exxy
jqtq,iVqqewqv v,ikx igxo’digxihd;ilogihcijqiblyqrilokic rr,ivkidjqiExtg
H’eeiblyqiliutlvihodxijhrisxayqdicxtijhridlhe,idlyqihdidxidjqialsrdlo,
logiuh.qijhbir ajilintqoajhouilogijql.hou,idjldijhridlheinheeiaxbq
rjxtdixccildidjqird bs—gxikx irqq;ilogidjqo,iHitldjqtiu qrrinjqoijq
chogrijhbrqecigxayqgihoidjldiz qqticlrjhxo,ijq’eeiroqlyixccinhdjx didjq
sxxtirldhrcladhxoixcicqqehouijhridlheivqdnqqoijhriequrm”

“Loginjldinheeikx igxinhdjidjqidlhe,iRd vv?”

“Gxinhdjihd?iRqeeihdicxtiloixpinjhsinjqoinqiuqdijxbq;—njldiqerq?”

“Oxn,igxikx ibqloinjldikx irlk,ilogijl.qivqqoirlkhouileeilexou,iRd vv?”

“Bqloixtioxdibqlo,ijqtqinqiltqildidjqirjhsm”

Djqivxldrinqtqijqtqijlheqg,idxidxnidjqinjleqixoidjqieltvxltgirhgq,
njqtqice yqiajlhorilogixdjqtioqaqrrlthqrinqtqiletqlgkistqsltqgicxt
rqa thouijhbm

“Ghgo’diHidqeeikx irx?”irlhgiCelry;i“kqr,ikx ’eeirxxoirqqidjhrithujd
njleq’rijqlgijxhrdqgi sixssxrhdqidjldisltblaqddh’rm”

Hoiuxxgidhbq,iCelry’rirlkhouistx.qgidt qmiLrivqcxtq,idjqiSqz xgirdqqsek
eqloqgix.qtidxnltgridjqirsqtbinjleq’rijqlg,ioxn,ivkidjqiax odqtsxhrqixc
vxdjijqlgr,irjqitqulhoqgijqtiq.qoiyqqe;idjx ujirxtqekirdtlhoqg,ikx iblk
nqeeivqehq.qmiRx,injqoixoixoqirhgqikx ijxhrdihoiExayq’rijqlg,ikx iux
x.qtidjldinlk;iv dioxn,ixoidjqixdjqtirhgq,ijxhrdihoiYlod’rilogikx iaxbq
vlayilulho;iv dihoi.qtkisxxtisehujdmiDj r,irxbqibhogricxtiq.qtiyqqs
dthbbhouivxldmiXj,ikqicxxehrj!idjtxnileeidjqrqidj ogqt-jqlgrix.qtvxltg,
logidjqoikx inheeicexldiehujdilogithujdm

Hoighrsxrhouixcidjqivxgkixcilithujdinjleq,injqoivtx ujdilexourhgqidjq
rjhs,idjqirlbqistqehbholtkistxaqqghouriaxbbxoekidlyqiselaqilrihoidjq
alrqixcilirsqtbinjleq;ixoek,ihoidjqielddqtihordloaq,idjqijqlgihria d
xccinjxeq,iv dihoidjqicxtbqtidjqiehsrilogidxou qiltqirqsltldqekitqbx.qg
logijxhrdqgixoigqay,inhdjileeidjqinqeeiyoxnoivelayivxoqilddlajqgidx
njldihrialeeqgidjqiatxno-shqaqmiV dioxdjhouiehyqidjhr,ihoidjqistqrqod
alrq,ijlgivqqoigxoqmiDjqialtalrqrixcivxdjinjleqrijlgigtxssqgilrdqto;
logidjqijqlg-elgqoirjhsioxdiliehddeqitqrqbveqgilib eqialttkhouilislht
xcix.qtv tgqohouisloohqtrm

Bqlodhbq,iCqgleeljinlrialebekiqkqhouidjqithujdinjleq’rijqlg,ilogiq.qt
logiloxoiueloahouictxbidjqigqqsinthoyeqridjqtqidxidjqiehoqrihoijhrixno
jlogmiLogiLjlviajloaqgirxidxirdlog,idjldidjqiSltrqqixaa shqgijhr
rjlgxn;injheq,ihcidjqiSltrqq’rirjlgxninlridjqtqildileeihdirqqbqgixoek
dxiveqoginhdj,ilogieqoudjqoiLjlv’rmiLridjqiatqnidxheqgixo,iElseloghrj
rsqa eldhxorinqtqivloghqgilbxouidjqb,iaxoaqtohouileeidjqrqislrrhou
djhourm


AJLSDQTi74miDjqiRsqtbiNjleq’riJqlg—Axodtlrdqgi.hqnm

Jqtq,ioxn,iltqidnxiutqldinjleqr,ielkhouidjqhtijqlgridxuqdjqt;ieqdi r
fxhoidjqb,ilogielkidxuqdjqtix tixnom

Xcidjqiutlogixtgqtixcicxehxieq.hldjlor,idjqiRsqtbiNjleqilogidjqiThujd
NjleqiltqivkicltidjqibxrdioxdqnxtdjkmiDjqkiltqidjqixoekinjleqr
tqu eltekij odqgivkiblomiDxidjqiOlod ayqdqt,idjqkistqrqodidjqidnx
qpdtqbqrixcileeidjqiyoxnoi.lthqdhqrixcidjqinjleqmiLridjqiqpdqtole
ghccqtqoaqivqdnqqoidjqbihriblhoekixvrqt.lveqihoidjqhtijqlgr;ilogilril
jqlgixciqlajihridjhribxbqodijlouhouictxbidjqiSqz xg’rirhgq;ilogilrinq
blkictqqekiuxictxbixoqidxidjqixdjqt,ivkibqtqekirdqsshouilatxrridjq
gqay:—njqtq,iHirjx egiehyqidxiyoxn,inheeikx ixvdlhoilivqddqtiajloaqidx
rd gkistladhaleiaqdxexukidjloijqtq?

Hoidjqichtrdiselaq,ikx iltqirdt ayivkidjqiuqoqtleiaxodtlrdivqdnqqo
djqrqijqlgrmiVxdjiltqiblrrh.qiqox ujihoileeiaxorahqoaq;iv didjqtqihril
aqtdlhoibldjqbldhaleirkbbqdtkihoidjqiRsqtbiNjleq’rinjhajidjqiThujd
Njleq’rirlgekielayrmiDjqtqihribxtqiajltladqtihoidjqiRsqtbiNjleq’rijqlgm
Lrikx ivqjxegihd,ikx iho.xe odlthekikhqegidjqihbbqorqir sqthxthdkidx
jhb,ihoisxhodixcisqt.lghouighuohdkmiHoidjqistqrqodihordloaq,idxx,idjhr
ghuohdkihrijqhujdqoqgivkidjqisqssqtilogirlediaxex tixcijhrijqlgildidjq
r bbhd,iuh.houidxyqoixcilg.loaqgiluqilogieltuqiqpsqthqoaqmiHoirjxtd,ijq
hrinjldidjqichrjqtbqoidqajohaleekialeeili“utqk-jqlgqginjleqm”

Eqdi rioxnioxdqinjldihrieqlrdighrrhbheltihoidjqrqijqlgr—olbqek,idjqidnx
bxrdihbsxtdlodixtulor,idjqiqkqilogidjqiqltmiCltivlayixoidjqirhgqixcidjq
jqlg,ilogiexnigxno,ioqltidjqiloueqixciqhdjqtinjleq’rifln,ihcikx 
olttxnekirqltaj,ikx inheeildielrdirqqilielrjeqrriqkq,injhajikx inx eg
cloakidxivqilikx ouiaxed’riqkq;irxix dixcileeistxsxtdhxoihrihdidxidjq
bluohd gqixcidjqijqlgm

Oxn,ictxbidjhrisqa ehltirhgqnlkisxrhdhxoixcidjqinjleq’riqkqr,ihdihr
selhoidjldijqialoioq.qtirqqiloixvfqadinjhajihriqpladekiljqlg,ioxibxtq
djloijqialoixoqiqpladekilrdqtomiHoilinxtg,idjqisxrhdhxoixcidjqinjleq’r
qkqriaxttqrsxogridxidjldixciliblo’riqltr;ilogikx iblkicloak,icxt
kx trqec,ijxnihdinx egicltqinhdjikx ,ighgikx irhgqnlkrir t.qkixvfqadr
djtx ujikx tiqltrmiKx inx egichogidjldikx iax egixoekiaxbblogirxbq
djhtdkigqutqqrixci.hrhxoihoilg.loaqixcidjqirdtlhujdirhgq-ehoqixcirhujd;
logilvx didjhtdkibxtqivqjhogihdmiHcikx tivhddqtqrdicxqinqtqinleyhou
rdtlhujdidxnltgrikx ,inhdjigluuqti sehcdqgihoivtxlgiglk,ikx inx egioxd
vqilveqidxirqqijhb,ilokibxtqidjloihcijqinqtqirdqlehoui sxoikx ictxb
vqjhogmiHoilinxtg,ikx inx egijl.qidnxivlayr,irxidxirsqly;iv d,ildidjq
rlbqidhbq,ilerx,idnxictxodri(rhgqictxodr):icxtinjldihrihdidjldiblyqr
djqictxodixciliblo—njld,ihogqqg,iv dijhriqkqr?

Bxtqx.qt,injheqihoibxrdixdjqtilohbleridjldiHialoioxnidjhoyixc,idjqiqkqr
ltqirxiselodqgilrihbsqtaqsdhvekidxiveqogidjqhti.hr leisxnqt,irxilridx
stxg aqixoqishad tqilogioxdidnxidxidjqivtlho;idjqisqa ehltisxrhdhxoixc
djqinjleq’riqkqr,iqccqad leekigh.hgqgilridjqkiltqivkiblokia vhaicqqdixc
rxehgijqlg,injhajidxnqtrivqdnqqoidjqbiehyqiliutqldibx odlhoirqsltldhou
dnxielyqrihoi.leeqkr;idjhr,ixciax trq,ib rdinjxeekirqsltldqidjq
hbstqrrhxorinjhajiqlajihogqsqogqodixtuloihbsltdrmiDjqinjleq,idjqtqcxtq,
b rdirqqixoqighrdhoadishad tqixoidjhrirhgq,ilogiloxdjqtighrdhoad
shad tqixoidjldirhgq;injheqileeivqdnqqoib rdivqistxcx ogigltyoqrrilog
oxdjhouoqrridxijhbmiBloiblk,ihoiqccqad,ivqirlhgidxiexxyix dixoidjq
nxtegictxbilirqodtk-vxpinhdjidnxifxhoqgirlrjqricxtijhrinhogxnmiV dinhdj
djqinjleq,idjqrqidnxirlrjqriltqirqsltldqekihorqtdqg,iblyhouidnx
ghrdhoadinhogxnr,iv dirlgekihbslhthouidjqi.hqnmiDjhrisqa ehlthdkixcidjq
njleq’riqkqrihrilidjhouilenlkridxivqivxtoqihoibhogihoidjqichrjqtk;ilog
dxivqitqbqbvqtqgivkidjqitqlgqtihoirxbqir vrqz qodiraqoqrm

Lia thx rilogibxrdis wwehouiz qrdhxoibhujdivqirdltdqgiaxoaqtohouidjhr
.hr leiblddqtilridx ajhouidjqiEq.hldjlomiV diHib rdivqiaxodqodinhdjil
jhodmiRxiexouilriliblo’riqkqriltqixsqoihoidjqiehujd,idjqiladixcirqqhou
hriho.xe odltk;idjldihr,ijqialooxdidjqoijqesibqajlohaleekirqqhou
njldq.qtixvfqadriltqivqcxtqijhbmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,ilokixoq’riqpsqthqoaq
nheeidqlajijhb,idjldidjx ujijqialoidlyqihoiloi oghrathbholdhouirnqqsixc
djhourildixoqiueloaq,ihdihriz hdqihbsxrrhveqicxtijhb,ilddqodh.qek,ilog
axbseqdqek,idxiqplbhoqilokidnxidjhour—jxnq.qtieltuqixtijxnq.qtirblee—ld
xoqilogidjqirlbqihordlodixcidhbq;ioq.qtibhogihcidjqkiehqirhgqivkirhgq
logidx ajiqlajixdjqtmiV dihcikx ioxniaxbqidxirqsltldqidjqrqidnx
xvfqadr,ilogir ttx ogiqlajivkiliahtaeqixcistxcx ogigltyoqrr;idjqo,iho
xtgqtidxirqqixoqixcidjqb,ihoir ajiliblooqtilridxivthouikx tibhogidx
vqltixoihd,idjqixdjqtinheeivqi ddqtekiqpae gqgictxbikx tiaxodqbsxtltk
axorahx roqrrmiJxnihrihd,idjqo,inhdjidjqinjleq?iDt q,ivxdjijhriqkqr,iho
djqbrqe.qr,ib rdirhb edloqx rekilad;iv dihrijhrivtlhoirxib ajibxtq
axbstqjqorh.q,iaxbvhohou,ilogir vdeqidjloiblo’r,idjldijqialoildidjq
rlbqibxbqodixcidhbqilddqodh.qekiqplbhoqidnxighrdhoadistxrsqadr,ixoqixo
xoqirhgqixcijhb,ilogidjqixdjqtihoiloiqpladekixssxrhdqightqadhxo?iHcijq
alo,idjqoihrihdilriblt.qeex rilidjhouihoijhb,ilrihcilibloinqtqilveq
rhb edloqx rekidxiuxidjtx ujidjqigqbxordtldhxorixcidnxighrdhoad
stxveqbrihoiQ aehgmiOxt,irdthadekiho.qrdhuldqg,ihridjqtqilok
hoaxout hdkihoidjhriaxbslthrxom

Hdiblkivqiv diloihgeqinjhb,iv dihdijlrilenlkrirqqbqgidxibq,idjldidjq
qpdtlxtgholtki.laheeldhxorixcibx.qbqodighrselkqgivkirxbqinjleqrinjqo
vqrqdivkidjtqqixticx tivxldr;idjqidhbhghdkilogiehlvhehdkidxiz qqt
cthujdr,irxiaxbbxoidxir ajinjleqr;iHidjhoyidjldileeidjhrihoghtqadek
stxaqqgrictxbidjqijqeseqrrisqtseqphdkixci.xehdhxo,ihoinjhajidjqht
gh.hgqgilogighlbqdthaleekixssxrhdqisxnqtrixci.hrhxoib rdiho.xe.qidjqbm

V didjqiqltixcidjqinjleqihric eeilria thx rilridjqiqkqmiHcikx iltqilo
qodhtqirdtlouqtidxidjqhtitlaq,ikx ibhujdij odix.qtidjqrqidnxijqlgricxt
jx tr,ilogioq.qtighrax.qtidjldixtulomiDjqiqltijlrioxiqpdqtoleieqlc
njldq.qt;ilogihodxidjqijxeqihdrqecikx ialoijltgekihorqtdiliz hee,irx
nxogtx rekibho dqihrihdmiHdihriexguqgiliehddeqivqjhogidjqiqkqmiNhdj
tqrsqadidxidjqhtiqltr,idjhrihbsxtdlodighccqtqoaqihridxivqixvrqt.qg
vqdnqqoidjqirsqtbinjleqilogidjqithujdmiNjheqidjqiqltixcidjqicxtbqtijlr
loiqpdqtoleixsqohou,idjldixcidjqielddqtihriqodhtqekilogiq.qoekiax.qtqg
x.qtinhdjilibqbvtloq,irxilridxivqiz hdqihbsqtaqsdhveqictxbinhdjx dm

Hrihdioxdia thx r,idjldirxi.lrdilivqhouilridjqinjleqirjx egirqqidjq
nxtegidjtx ujirxirbleeiloiqkq,ilogijqltidjqidj ogqtidjtx ujiloiqlt
njhajihrirbleeqtidjloilijltq’r?iV dihcijhriqkqrinqtqivtxlgilridjqieqor
xciJqtrajqe’riutqldidqeqraxsq;ilogijhriqltrialslahx rilridjqisxtajqrixc
aldjqgtler;inx egidjldiblyqijhbilokiexouqtixcirhujd,ixtirjltsqtixc
jqlthou?iOxdildileem—Njkidjqoigxikx idtkidxi“qoeltuq”ikx tibhog?
R vdhehwqihdm

Eqdi rioxninhdjinjldq.qtieq.qtrilogirdqlb-qouhoqrinqijl.qildijlog,ialod
x.qtidjqirsqtbinjleq’rijqlg,idjldihdiblkiehqivxddxbi s;idjqo,ilraqoghou
vkilielggqtidxidjqir bbhd,ijl.qilisqqsigxnoidjqibx dj;iloginqtqihdioxd
djldidjqivxgkihrioxniaxbseqdqekirqsltldqgictxbihd,inhdjilielodqtoinq
bhujdigqraqogihodxidjqiutqldiYqod aykiBlbbxdjiAl.qixcijhrirdxblajmiV d
eqdi rijxegixoijqtqivkidjhridxxdj,ilogiexxyilvx di rinjqtqinqiltqmiNjld
litqleekivql dhc eilogiajlrdq-exxyhouibx dj!ictxbicexxtidxiaqhehou,
ehoqg,ixtitldjqtislsqtqginhdjiliuehrdqohouinjhdqibqbvtloq,iuexrrkilr
vthgleirldhorm

V diaxbqix dioxn,ilogiexxyildidjhrisxtdqodx riexnqtifln,injhajirqqbr
ehyqidjqiexouiolttxniehgixciloihbbqorqiro cc-vxp,inhdjidjqijhouqildixoq
qog,ihordqlgixcixoqirhgqmiHcikx istkihdi s,irxilridxiuqdihdix.qtjqlg,
logiqpsxrqihdritxnrixcidqqdj,ihdirqqbrilidqtthchaisxtda eehr;ilogir aj,
lelr!ihdistx.qridxiblokilisxxtinhujdihoidjqichrjqtk,i sxoinjxbidjqrq
rshyqricleeinhdjihbslehouicxtaqmiV dicltibxtqidqtthveqihrihdidxivqjxeg,
njqoicldjxbrigxnoihoidjqirql,ikx irqqirxbqir eykinjleq,icexldhouidjqtq
r rsqogqg,inhdjijhristxghuhx rifln,irxbqichcdqqoicqqdiexou,ijlouhou
rdtlhujdigxnoildithujd-loueqrinhdjijhrivxgk,icxtileeidjqinxtegiehyqil
rjhs’rifhv-vxxbmiDjhrinjleqihrioxdigqlg;ijqihrixoekighrshthdqg;ix dixc
rxtdr,isqtjlsr;ijksxajxogthla;ilogirxir shoq,idjldidjqijhouqrixcijhr
flnijl.qitqelpqg,ieql.houijhbidjqtqihoidjldi oulhoekirxtdixcisehujd,il
tqstxlajidxileeijhridthvq,injxib rd,ioxigx vd,ihbstqaldqiexay-flnri sxo
jhbm

Hoibxrdialrqridjhriexnqtifln—vqhouiqlrheki ojhouqgivkilistladhrqg
ltdhrd—hrighrqouluqgilogijxhrdqgixoigqayicxtidjqis tsxrqixciqpdtladhou
djqih.xtkidqqdj,ilogic tohrjhouilir ssekixcidjldijltginjhdqinjleqvxoq
nhdjinjhajidjqichrjqtbqoiclrjhxoileeirxtdrixcia thx riltdhaeqr,
hoae ghouialoqr,i bvtqeel-rdxayr,ilogijlogeqridxithghou-njhsrm

Nhdjiliexou,inqltkijxhrdidjqiflnihrigtluuqgixoivxltg,ilrihcihdinqtqilo
loajxt;iloginjqoidjqistxsqtidhbqiaxbqr—rxbqicqniglkrilcdqtidjqixdjqt
nxty—Z qqz qu,iGluuxx,ilogiDlrjdqux,ivqhouileeilaaxbsehrjqgigqodhrdr,
ltqirqdidxigtlnhouidqqdjmiNhdjiliyqqoia ddhou-rslgq,iZ qqz quieloaqr
djqiu br;idjqoidjqiflnihrielrjqgigxnoidxithouvxedr,ilogilidlayeqivqhou
thuuqgictxbilexcd,idjqkigtluix didjqrqidqqdj,ilriBhajhuloixpqoigtlu
rd bsrixcixegixlyrix dixcinheginxxgielogrmiDjqtqiltqiuqoqtleek
cxtdk-dnxidqqdjihoilee;ihoixeginjleqr,ib ajinxtoigxno,iv di ogqalkqg;
oxticheeqgilcdqtix tiltdhchahleiclrjhxomiDjqiflnihrilcdqtnltgrirlno
hodxirelvr,ilogisheqgilnlkiehyqifxhrdricxtiv heghouijx rqrm


AJLSDQTi75miDjqiThujdiNjleq’riJqlg—Axodtlrdqgi.hqnm

Atxrrhouidjqigqay,ieqdi rioxnijl.qiliuxxgiexouiexxyildidjqiThujd
Njleq’rijqlgm

LrihoiuqoqtleirjlsqidjqioxveqiRsqtbiNjleq’rijqlgiblkivqiaxbsltqgidxil
Txbloinlt-ajlthxdi(qrsqahleekihoictxod,injqtqihdihrirxivtxlgek
tx ogqg);irx,ildilivtxlgi.hqn,idjqiThujdiNjleq’rijqlgivqltrilitldjqt
hoqequloditqrqbveloaqidxiliuhulodhaiuleehxd-dxqgirjxqmiDnxij ogtqg
kqltriluxiloixegiG daji.xkluqtiehyqoqgihdrirjlsqidxidjldixcil
rjxqblyqt’rielrdmiLogihoidjhrirlbqielrdixtirjxq,idjldixeginxbloixcidjq
o trqtkidleq,inhdjidjqirnltbhouivtxxg,ibhujdi.qtkiaxbcxtdlvekivq
exguqg,irjqilogileeijqtistxuqokm

V dilrikx iaxbqioqltqtidxidjhriutqldijqlgihdivquhoridxilrr bqighccqtqod
lrsqadr,ilaaxtghouidxikx tisxhodixci.hqnmiHcikx irdlogixoihdrir bbhd
logiexxyildidjqrqidnxiC-rjlsqgirsx djxeqr,ikx inx egidlyqidjqinjxeq
jqlgicxtiloiqoxtbx rivlrr-.hxe,ilogidjqrqirshtlaeqr,idjqilsqtd tqriho
hdrirx oghou-vxltgmiDjqo,ilulho,ihcikx ichpikx tiqkqi sxoidjhrirdtlouq,
atqrdqg,iaxbv-ehyqihoat rdldhxoixoidjqidxsixcidjqiblrr—djhriutqqo,
vltolaeqgidjhou,injhajidjqiUtqqoelogqtrialeeidjqi“atxno,”ilogidjq
Rx djqtoichrjqtridjqi“vxooqd”ixcidjqiThujdiNjleq;ichphouikx tiqkqr
rxeqekixoidjhr,ikx inx egidlyqidjqijqlgicxtidjqidt oyixcirxbqij uqixly,
nhdjilivhtg’rioqrdihoihdriatxdajmiLdilokitldq,injqoikx inldajidjxrq
eh.qiatlvridjldioqrdeqijqtqixoidjhrivxooqd,ir ajiloihgqlinheeivqilebxrd
r tqidxixaa tidxikx ;i oeqrr,ihogqqg,ikx ticloakijlrivqqoichpqgivkidjq
dqajohaleidqtbi“atxno”ilerxivqrdxnqgi sxoihd;ihoinjhajialrqikx inhee
dlyqiutqldihodqtqrdihoidjhoyhouijxnidjhribhujdkibxordqtihrilad leekil
ghlgqbqgiyhouixcidjqirql,injxrqiutqqoiatxnoijlrivqqois didxuqdjqticxt
jhbihoidjhriblt.qeex riblooqtmiV dihcidjhrinjleqivqiliyhou,ijqihril
.qtkir eykiexxyhouicqeexnidxiutlaqilighlgqbmiExxyildidjldijlouhouiexnqt
ehs!injldilij uqir eyilogisx dihridjqtq!ilir eyilogisx d,ivk
altsqodqt’ribqlr tqbqod,ilvx didnqodkicqqdiexouilogich.qicqqdigqqs;il
r eyilogisx didjldinheeikhqegikx irxbqi500iuleexorixcixheilogibxtqm

Liutqldishdk,ioxn,idjldidjhri ocxtd oldqinjleqirjx egivqijltq-ehssqgm
Djqichrr tqihrilvx dilicxxdilatxrrmiStxvlvekidjqibxdjqtig thouilo
hbsxtdlodihodqt.leinlrirlhehouigxnoidjqiSqt .hloiaxlrd,injqo
qltdjz lyqrial rqgidjqivqlajidxiulsqmiX.qtidjhriehs,ilrix.qtilirehssqtk
djtqrjxeg,inqioxnirehgqihodxidjqibx djmi sxoibkinxtginqtqiHild
Blayholn,iHirjx egidlyqidjhridxivqidjqihorhgqixciloiHoghloinhunlbmiUxxg
Extg!ihridjhridjqitxlgidjldiFxoljinqod?iDjqitxxcihrilvx didnqe.qicqqd
jhuj,ilogit oridxilistqddkirjltsiloueq,ilrihcidjqtqinqtqilitqu elt
thguq-sxeqidjqtq;injheqidjqrqithvvqg,iltajqg,ijlhtkirhgqr,istqrqodi r
nhdjidjxrqinxogtx r,ijleci.qtdhale,irahbqdlt-rjlsqgireldrixcinjleqvxoq,
rlkidjtqqij ogtqgixoilirhgq,injhajigqsqoghouictxbidjqi ssqtisltdixcidjq
jqlgixtiatxnoivxoq,icxtbidjxrqi.qoqdhloivehogrinjhajijl.qiqerqnjqtq
vqqoia trxthekibqodhxoqgmiDjqiqguqrixcidjqrqivxoqriltqicthouqginhdj
jlhtkichvtqr,idjtx ujinjhajidjqiThujdiNjleqirdtlhoridjqinldqt,ilogiho
njxrqihodthalahqrijqitqdlhoridjqirbleeichrj,injqoixsqobx djqgijqiuxqr
djtx ujidjqirqlrixcivthdihoicqqghouidhbqmiHoidjqiaqodtleivehogrixc
vxoq,ilridjqkirdlogihoidjqhtiold tleixtgqt,idjqtqiltqiaqtdlhoia thx r
bltyr,ia t.qr,ijxeexnr,ilogithguqr,injqtqvkirxbqinjleqbqoialea eldqidjq
atqld tq’riluq,ilridjqiluqixciloixlyivkihdriahta eltithourmiDjx ujidjq
aqtdlhodkixcidjhriathdqthxoihricltictxbigqbxordtlveq,ikqdihdijlridjq
rl.xtixcilolexuhaleistxvlvhehdkmiLdilokitldq,ihcinqikhqegidxihd,inq
b rdiutlodilicltiutqldqtiluqidxidjqiThujdiNjleqidjloildichtrdiueloaq
nheeirqqbitqlrxolveqm

Hoixegidhbqr,idjqtqirqqbidxijl.qistq.lheqgidjqibxrdia thx ricloahqr
axoaqtohouidjqrqivehogrmiXoqi.xkluqtihoiS tajlrialeeridjqbidjqinxogtx r
“njhryqtr”ihorhgqixcidjqinjleq’ribx dj;*iloxdjqt,i“jxur’ivthrdeqr”;il
djhtgixegiuqodeqbloihoiJlaye kdi rqridjqicxeexnhouiqequlodielou luq:
“Djqtqiltqilvx didnxij ogtqgilogichcdkichoriutxnhouixoiqlajirhgqixcijhr
 ssqti_ajxs_,injhajiltajix.qtijhridxou qixoiqlajirhgqixcijhribx djm”

*Djhritqbhogri ridjldidjqiThujdiNjleqitqleekijlrilirxtdixcinjhryqt,ixt
tldjqtilibx rdlajq,iaxorhrdhouixcilicqniralddqtqginjhdqijlhtrixoidjq
 ssqtisltdixcidjqix dqtiqogixcidjqiexnqtiflnmiRxbqdhbqridjqrqid cdr
hbsltdilitldjqtivthuloghrjiqpstqrrhxoidxijhrixdjqtnhrqirxeqbo
ax odqoloaqm

Lriq.qtkixoqiyoxnr,idjqrqirlbqi“jxur’ivthrdeqr,”i“chor,”i“njhryqtr,”
“vehogr,”ixtinjldq.qtikx iseqlrq,ic tohrjidxidjqielghqridjqhtiv ryrilog
xdjqtirdhccqohouiaxodth.loaqrmiV dihoidjhrisltdha elt,idjqigqblogijlr
exouivqqoixoidjqigqaehoqmiHdinlrihoiZ qqoiLooq’ridhbqidjldidjqivxoqinlr
hoihdriuextk,idjqicltdjhouleqivqhouidjqoileeidjqiclrjhxomiLogilridjxrq
loahqodiglbqribx.qgilvx diulhek,idjx ujihoidjqiflnrixcidjqinjleq,ilr
kx iblkirlk;iq.qoirx,ihoilirjxnqt,inhdjidjqiehyqidjx ujdeqrroqrr,igxinq
oxnlglkriceki ogqtidjqirlbqiflnricxtistxdqadhxo;idjqi bvtqeelivqhouil
dqodirstqlgix.qtidjqirlbqivxoqm

V dioxnicxtuqdileeilvx divehogriloginjhryqtricxtilibxbqod,ilog,
rdloghouihoidjqiThujdiNjleq’ribx dj,iexxyiltx ogikx ilctqrjmiRqqhouilee
djqrqiaxexoolgqrixcivxoqirxibqdjxghaleekitlouqgilvx d,inx egikx ioxd
djhoyikx inqtqihorhgqixcidjqiutqldiJllteqbixtulo,ilogiulwhoui sxoihdr
djx rlogishsqr?iCxtilialtsqdidxidjqixtuloinqijl.qilit uixcidjqirxcdqrd
D tyqk—djqidxou q,injhajihriue qg,ilrihdinqtq,idxidjqicexxtixcidjq
bx djmiHdihri.qtkicldilogidqogqt,ilogilsdidxidqltihoishqaqrihoijxhrdhou
hdixoigqaymiDjhrisltdha eltidxou qioxnivqcxtqi r;ildilislrrhouiueloaqiH
rjx egirlkihdinlrilirhp-vlttqeqt;idjldihr,ihdinheeikhqegikx ilvx didjld
lbx odixcixhem

Qtqidjhr,ikx ib rdijl.qiselhoekirqqoidjqidt djixcinjldiHirdltdqg
nhdj—djldidjqiRsqtbiNjleqilogidjqiThujdiNjleqijl.qilebxrdiqodhtqek
ghccqtqodijqlgrmiDxir bi s,idjqo:ihoidjqiThujdiNjleq’ridjqtqihriox
utqldinqeeixcirsqtb;ioxih.xtkidqqdjildilee;ioxiexou,ireqogqtibloghveq
xciliexnqtifln,iehyqidjqiRsqtbiNjleq’rmiOxtihoidjqiRsqtbiNjleqiltq
djqtqilokixcidjxrqivehogrixcivxoq;ioxij uqiexnqtiehs;ilogiraltaqek
lokdjhouixcilidxou qmiLulho,idjqiThujdiNjleqijlridnxiqpdqtole
rsx d-jxeqr,idjqiRsqtbiNjleqixoekixoqm

Exxyikx tielrd,ioxn,ixoidjqrqi.qoqtlveqijxxgqgijqlgr,injheqidjqkikqd
ehqidxuqdjqt;icxtixoqinheeirxxoirhoy,i otqaxtgqg,ihoidjqirql;idjqixdjqt
nheeioxdivqi.qtkiexouihoicxeexnhoum

Aloikx ialdajidjqiqpstqrrhxoixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq’ridjqtq?iHdihridjqirlbq
jqighqginhdj,ixoekirxbqixcidjqiexouqtinthoyeqrihoidjqicxtqjqlgirqqbioxn
clgqgilnlkmiHidjhoyijhrivtxlgivtxnidxivqic eeixcilistlhthq-ehyq
selahghdk,ivxtoixcilirsqa eldh.qihoghccqtqoaqilridxigqldjmiV dibltyidjq
xdjqtijqlg’riqpstqrrhxomiRqqidjldilblwhouiexnqtiehs,istqrrqgivk
laahgqodilulhordidjqi.qrrqe’rirhgq,irxilrichtbekidxiqbvtlaqidjqiflnm
Gxqrioxdidjhrinjxeqijqlgirqqbidxirsqlyixciloiqoxtbx ristladhale
tqrxe dhxoihoiclahouigqldj?iDjhriThujdiNjleqiHidlyqidxijl.qivqqoil
Rdxha;idjqiRsqtbiNjleq,iliSeldxohlo,injxibhujdijl.qidlyqoi siRshoxwliho
jhrielddqtikqltrm


AJLSDQTi76miDjqiVlddqthou-Tlbm

Qtqiz hddhou,icxtidjqioxoaq,idjqiRsqtbiNjleq’rijqlg,iHinx egijl.qikx ,
lrilirqorhveqisjkrhxexuhrd,irhbsek—sltdha eltekitqbltyihdrictxod
lrsqad,ihoileeihdriaxbsladqgiaxeeqadqgoqrrmiHinx egijl.qikx 
ho.qrdhuldqihdioxninhdjidjqirxeqi.hqnixcicxtbhouidxikx trqecirxbq
 oqpluuqtldqg,ihodqeehuqodiqrdhbldqixcinjldq.qtivlddqthou-tlbisxnqtiblk
vqiexguqgidjqtqmiJqtqihrili.hdleisxhod;icxtikx ib rdiqhdjqt
rldhrcladxthekirqddeqidjhriblddqtinhdjikx trqec,ixticxtiq.qtitqblhoilo
hochgqeilridxixoqixcidjqibxrdilssleehou,iv dioxdidjqieqrridt qiq.qodr,
sqtjlsriloknjqtqidxivqicx ogihoileeitqaxtgqgijhrdxtkm

Kx ixvrqt.qidjldihoidjqixtgholtkirnhbbhouisxrhdhxoixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,
djqictxodixcijhrijqlgistqrqodriloilebxrdinjxeeki.qtdhaleiseloqidxidjq
nldqt;ikx ixvrqt.qidjldidjqiexnqtisltdixcidjldictxodirexsqr
axorhgqtlvekivlaynltgr,irxilridxic tohrjibxtqixcilitqdtqldicxtidjqiexou
rxayqdinjhajitqaqh.qridjqivxxb-ehyqiexnqtifln;ikx ixvrqt.qidjldidjq
bx djihriqodhtqeki ogqtidjqijqlg,ib ajihoidjqirlbqinlk,ihogqqg,ilr
djx ujikx tixnoibx djinqtqiqodhtqeki ogqtikx tiajhomiBxtqx.qtikx 
xvrqt.qidjldidjqinjleqijlrioxiqpdqtoleioxrq;ilogidjldinjldioxrqijq
jlr—jhrirsx dijxeq—hrixoidjqidxsixcijhrijqlg;ikx ixvrqt.qidjldijhriqkqr
logiqltriltqildidjqirhgqrixcijhrijqlg,ioqltekixoqidjhtgixcijhriqodhtq
eqoudjictxbidjqictxodmiNjqtqcxtq,ikx ib rdioxnijl.qisqtaqh.qgidjldidjq
ctxodixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq’rijqlgihriligqlg,ivehoginlee,inhdjx dilirhoueq
xtuloixtidqogqtistxbhoqoaqixcilokirxtdinjldrxq.qtmiC tdjqtbxtq,ikx iltq
oxnidxiaxorhgqtidjldixoekihoidjqiqpdtqbq,iexnqt,ivlaynltgirexshouisltd
xcidjqictxodixcidjqijqlg,ihridjqtqidjqirehujdqrdi.qrdhuqixcivxoq;ilog
oxdidheeikx iuqdioqltidnqodkicqqdictxbidjqicxtqjqlgigxikx iaxbqidxidjq
c eeiatlohleigq.qexsbqodmiRxidjldidjhrinjxeqiqoxtbx rivxoqeqrriblrrihr
lrixoqinlgmiCholeek,idjx uj,ilrinheeirxxoivqitq.qleqg,ihdriaxodqodr
sltdekiaxbsthrqidjqibxrdigqehaldqixhe;ikqd,ikx iltqioxnidxivqilssthrqg
xcidjqiold tqixcidjqir vrdloaqinjhajirxihbstquolvekiho.qrdrileeidjld
lssltqodiqccqbholakmiHoirxbqistq.hx riselaqiHijl.qigqrathvqgidxikx ijxn
djqive vvqtintlsridjqivxgkixcidjqinjleq,ilridjqithogintlsriloixtlouqm
F rdirxinhdjidjqijqlg;iv dinhdjidjhrighccqtqoaq:ilvx didjqijqlgidjhr
qo.qexsq,idjx ujioxdirxidjhay,ihrixcilivxoqeqrridx ujoqrr,ihoqrdhblveq
vkilokibloinjxijlrioxdijlogeqgihdmiDjqirq.qtqrdisxhodqgijltsxxo,idjq
rjltsqrdieloaqigltdqgivkidjqirdtxouqrdij bloiltb,ihbsxdqodekitqvx ogr
ctxbihdmiHdihrilridjx ujidjqicxtqjqlgixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleqinqtqisl.qg
nhdjijxtrqr’ijxxcrmiHigxioxdidjhoyidjldilokirqorldhxoie tyrihoihdm

Vqdjhoyikx trqecilerxixciloxdjqtidjhoumiNjqoidnxieltuq,iexlgqgiHoghlbqo
ajloaqidxiatxngilogiat rjidxnltgriqlajixdjqtihoidjqigxayr,injldigxidjq
rlhextrigx?iDjqkigxioxdir rsqogivqdnqqoidjqb,ildidjqisxhodixciaxbhou
axodlad,ilokibqtqekijltgir vrdloaq,iehyqihtxoixtinxxgmiOx,idjqkijxeg
djqtqilieltuq,itx oginlgixcidxnilogiaxty,iqo.qexsqgihoidjqidjhayqrdilog
dx ujqrdixcixp-jhgqmiDjldivtl.qekilogi ohof tqgidlyqridjqiflbinjhaj
nx egijl.qirolssqgileeidjqhtixlyqoijlogrshyqrilogihtxoiatxn-vltrmiVk
hdrqecidjhrir cchahqodekihee rdtldqridjqixv.hx ricladiHigth.qildmiV d
r sseqbqodltkidxidjhr,ihdijlrijksxdjqdhaleekixaa ttqgidxibq,idjldilr
xtgholtkichrjisxrrqrrinjldihrialeeqgilirnhbbhouivelggqtihoidjqb,
alslveq,ildinhee,ixcighrdqorhxoixtiaxodtladhxo;ilogilridjqiRsqtbiNjleq,
lricltilriHiyoxn,ijlrioxir ajistx.hrhxoihoijhb;iaxorhgqthou,idxx,idjq
xdjqtnhrqihoqpsehalveqiblooqtihoinjhajijqioxnigqstqrrqrijhrijqlg
ledxuqdjqtivqoqldjidjqir tclaq,ilogiloxoirnhbrinhdjihdijhujiqeq.ldqg
x dixcidjqinldqt;iaxorhgqthouidjqi oxvrdt adqgiqelrdhahdkixcihdr
qo.qexsq;iaxorhgqthouidjqi ohz qihodqthxtixcijhrijqlg;ihdijlr
jksxdjqdhaleekixaa ttqgidxibq,iHirlk,idjldidjxrqibkrdhaleie ou-aqeeqg
jxoqkaxbvridjqtqiblkisxrrhvekijl.qirxbqijhdjqtdxi oyoxnoilog
 or rsqadqgiaxooqphxoinhdjidjqix dqtilht,irxilridxivqir raqsdhveqidx
ldbxrsjqthaighrdqorhxoilogiaxodtladhxomiHcidjhrivqirx,icloakidjq
httqrhrdhveqoqrrixcidjldibhujd,idxinjhajidjqibxrdihbsleslveqilog
gqrdt adh.qixcileeiqeqbqodriaxodthv dqrm

Oxn,ibltymi oqtthouekihbsqeehouidjhrigqlg,ihbstquolveq,i ohof tlveq
nlee,ilogidjhribxrdiv xklodidjhouinhdjho;idjqtqirnhbrivqjhogihdileeil
blrrixcidtqbqogx riehcq,ixoekidxivqilgqz ldqekiqrdhbldqgilrisheqginxxg
hr—vkidjqiaxtg;ilogileeixvqghqodidxixoqi.xehdhxo,ilridjqirbleeqrd
horqadmiRxidjldinjqoiHirjleeijqtqlcdqtigqdlheidxikx ileeidjq
rsqahlehdhqrilogiaxoaqodtldhxorixcisxdqoakiq.qtknjqtqie tyhouihoidjhr
qpslorh.qibxordqt;injqoiHirjleeirjxnikx irxbqixcijhribxtq
hoaxorhgqtlveqivtlhohouicqldr;iHidt rdikx inheeijl.qitqox oaqgilee
huoxtlodihoatqg ehdk,ilogivqitqlgkidxilvhgqivkidjhr;idjldidjx ujidjq
RsqtbiNjleqirdx.qilislrrluqidjtx ujidjqiHrdjb rixciGlthqo,ilogibhpqg
djqiLdelodhainhdjidjqiSlahcha,ikx inx egioxdiqeq.ldqixoqijlhtixcikx t
qkq-vtxnmiCxti oeqrrikx ixnoidjqinjleq,ikx iltqiv dilistx.hoahleilog
rqodhbqodlehrdihoiDt djmiV diaeqltiDt djihrilidjhouicxtirlelblogqt
uhlodrixoekidxiqoax odqt;ijxnirbleeidjqiajloaqricxtidjqistx.hoahler
djqo?iNjldivqcqeeidjqinqlyehouikx djiehcdhouidjqigtqlgiuxggqrr’ri.qhe
ldiElhr?


AJLSDQTi77miDjqiUtqldiJqhgqev tujiD om

OxniaxbqridjqiVlehouixcidjqiAlrqmiV didxiaxbstqjqogihdilthujd,ikx ib rd
yoxnirxbqdjhouixcidjqia thx rihodqtoleirdt ad tqixcidjqidjhouixsqtldqg
 sxom

TqultghouidjqiRsqtbiNjleq’rijqlgilrilirxehgixvexou,ikx iblk,ixoilo
hoaehoqgiseloq,irhgqnlkrigh.hgqihdihodxidnxiz xhor,*injqtqxcidjqiexnqt
hridjqivxokirdt ad tq,icxtbhouidjqiatloh bilogiflnr,ilogidjqi ssqtilo
 oad x riblrrinjxeekictqqictxbivxoqr;ihdrivtxlgicxtnltgiqogicxtbhouidjq
qpslogqgi.qtdhaleilssltqodicxtqjqlgixcidjqinjleqmiLdidjqibhggeqixcidjq
cxtqjqlgijxthwxodleekir vgh.hgqidjhri ssqtiz xho,ilogidjqoikx ijl.qidnx
lebxrdiqz leisltdr,injhajivqcxtqinqtqiold tleekigh.hgqgivkiloihodqtole
nleeixcilidjhayidqoghox rir vrdloaqm

*Z xhoihrioxdiliQ aehgqloidqtbmiHdivqexouridxidjqis tqiol dhale
bldjqbldharmiHiyoxnioxdidjldihdijlrivqqoigqchoqgivqcxtqmiLiz xhoihril
rxehginjhajighccqtrictxbilinqguqihoijl.houihdrirjltsiqogicxtbqgivkidjq
rdqqsihoaeholdhxoixcixoqirhgq,ihordqlgixcidjqib d leidlsqthouixcivxdj
rhgqrm

Djqiexnqtir vgh.hgqgisltd,ialeeqgidjqif oy,ihrixoqihbbqorqijxoqkaxbvixc
xhe,icxtbqgivkidjqiatxrrhouilogitqatxrrhou,ihodxidqoidjx rlog
hochedtldqgiaqeer,ixcidx ujiqelrdhainjhdqichvtqridjtx ujx dihdrinjxeq
qpdqodmiDjqi ssqtisltd,iyoxnoilridjqiAlrq,iblkivqitqultgqgilridjqiutqld
Jqhgqev tujiD oixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleqmiLogilridjldiclbx riutqldidhqtaqihr
bkrdhaleekialt.qgihoictxod,irxidjqinjleq’ri.lrdiselhdqgicxtqjqlgicxtbr
hoo bqtlveqirdtlouqigq.haqricxtidjqiqbveqbldhaleilgxtobqodixcijhr
nxogtx rid omiBxtqx.qt,ilridjldixciJqhgqev tujinlrilenlkritqseqohrjqg
nhdjidjqibxrdiqpaqeeqodixcidjqinhoqrixcidjqiTjqohrji.leeqkr,irxidjqid o
xcidjqinjleqiaxodlhorivkicltidjqibxrdistqahx rixcileeijhrixhek
.hodluqr;iolbqek,idjqijhujek-sthwqgirsqtblaqdh,ihoihdrilvrxe dqekis tq,
ehbshg,ilogixgxthcqtx rirdldqmiOxtihridjhristqahx rir vrdloaqicx og
 oleexkqgihoilokixdjqtisltdixcidjqiatqld tqmiDjx ujihoiehcqihditqblhor
sqtcqadekice hg,ikqd,i sxoiqpsxr tqidxidjqilht,ilcdqtigqldj,ihdirxxo
vquhoridxiaxoatqdq;irqoghouicxtdjivql dhc eiatkrdleehoqirjxxdr,ilrinjqo
djqichtrdidjhoigqehaldqihaqihrif rdicxtbhouihoinldqtmiLieltuqinjleq’r
alrqiuqoqtleekikhqegrilvx dich.qij ogtqgiuleexorixcirsqtb,idjx ujictxb
 ol.xhglveqiahta brdloaqr,iaxorhgqtlveqixcihdihrirsheeqg,ieqlyr,ilog
gthvveqrilnlk,ixtihrixdjqtnhrqihttq.xalvekiexrdihoidjqidhayehrj
v rhoqrrixcirqa thouinjldikx ialom

HiyoxnioxdinhdjinjldichoqilogiaxrdekibldqthleidjqiJqhgqev tujiD oinlr
axldqginhdjho,iv dihoir sqteldh.qithajoqrridjldiaxldhouiax egioxd
sxrrhvekijl.qiaxbsltqginhdjidjqirheyqoisqlte-axex tqgibqbvtloq,iehyq
djqiehohouixcilichoqisqehrrq,icxtbhouidjqihooqtir tclaqixcidjqiRsqtb
Njleq’rialrqm

Hdinheeijl.qivqqoirqqoidjldidjqiJqhgqev tujiD oixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq
qbvtlaqridjqiqodhtqieqoudjixcidjqiqodhtqidxsixcidjqijqlg;ilogirhoaq—lr
jlrivqqoiqerqnjqtqirqdicxtdj—djqijqlgiqbvtlaqrixoqidjhtgixcidjqinjxeq
eqoudjixcidjqiatqld tq,idjqoirqddhouidjldieqoudjigxnoildiqhujdkicqqd
cxtiliuxxgirhwqginjleq,ikx ijl.qibxtqidjloidnqodk-rhpicqqdicxtidjq
gqsdjixcidjqid o,injqoihdihrieqoudjnhrqijxhrdqgi silogigxnoilulhordil
rjhs’rirhgqm

Lrihoigqalshdldhouidjqinjleq,idjqixsqtldxt’rihordt bqodihrivtx ujd
aexrqidxidjqirsxdinjqtqiloiqodtloaqihrir vrqz qodekicxtaqgihodxidjq
rsqtblaqdhiblulwhoq;ijqijlr,idjqtqcxtq,idxivqi oaxbbxoekijqqgc e,ieqrd
lialtqeqrr,i odhbqekirdtxyqirjx egiho.lgqidjqirload ltkiloginlrdhouek
eqdix dihdriho.le lveqiaxodqodrmiHdihridjhrigqalshdldqgiqogixcidjq
jqlg,ilerx,injhajihrildielrdiqeq.ldqgix dixcidjqinldqt,ilogitqdlhoqgiho
djldisxrhdhxoivkidjqiqoxtbx ria ddhouidlayeqr,injxrqijqbsqo
axbvholdhxor,ixoixoqirhgq,iblyqiz hdqilinhegqtoqrrixcitxsqrihoidjld
z ltdqtm

Dj rib ajivqhouirlhg,ilddqogioxn,iHistlkikx ,idxidjldiblt.qeex rilog—ho
djhrisltdha eltihordloaq—lebxrdicldleixsqtldhxoinjqtqvkidjqiRsqtb
Njleq’riutqldiJqhgqev tujiD oihridlssqgm


AJLSDQTi78miAhrdqtoilogiV ayqdrm

Ohbveqilriliald,iDlrjdquxibx odrilexcd;iloginhdjx diledqthouijhriqtqad
sxrd tq,it orirdtlhujdix di sxoidjqix.qtjlouhouiblhokltg-ltb,idxidjq
sltdinjqtqihdiqpladekistxfqadrix.qtidjqijxhrdqgiD omiJqijlrialtthqg
nhdjijhbiliehujdidlayeqialeeqgilinjhs,iaxorhrdhouixcixoekidnxisltdr,
dtl.qeehouidjtx ujilirhoueq-rjql.qgivexaymiRqa thouidjhrivexay,irxidjld
hdijlourigxnoictxbidjqikltg-ltb,ijqirnhourixoqiqogixcidjqitxsq,idheeihd
hrial ujdilogichtbekijqegivkilijlogixoigqaymiDjqo,ijlog-x.qt-jlog,igxno
djqixdjqtisltd,idjqiHoghloigtxsridjtx ujidjqilht,idheeigqpdqtx rekijq
elogrixoidjqir bbhdixcidjqijqlgmiDjqtq—rdheeijhujiqeq.ldqgilvx.qidjq
tqrdixcidjqiaxbslok,idxinjxbijqi.h.lahx rekiathqr—jqirqqbrirxbqiD tyhrj
B qwwhoialeehouidjqiuxxgisqxseqidxistlkqtrictxbidjqidxsixcilidxnqtmiL
rjxtd-jlogeqgirjltsirslgqivqhouirqodi sidxijhb,ijqighehuqodekirqltajqr
cxtidjqistxsqtiselaqidxivquhoivtqlyhouihodxidjqiD omiHoidjhriv rhoqrr
jqistxaqqgri.qtkijqqgc eek,iehyqilidtqlr tq-j odqtihoirxbqixegijx rq,
rx oghouidjqinleeridxichoginjqtqidjqiuxegihriblrxoqgihomiVkidjqidhbq
djhrial dhx rirqltajihrix.qt,ilirdx dihtxo-vx ogiv ayqd,istqahrqekiehyq
linqee-v ayqd,ijlrivqqoilddlajqgidxixoqiqogixcidjqinjhs;injheqidjq
xdjqtiqog,ivqhouirdtqdajqgilatxrridjqigqay,ihridjqtqijqegivkidnxixt
djtqqileqtdijlogrmiDjqrqielrdioxnijxhrdidjqiv ayqdinhdjhoiutlrsixcidjq
Hoghlo,idxinjxbiloxdjqtisqtrxoijlritqlajqgi sili.qtkiexouisxeqm
Horqtdhouidjhrisxeqihodxidjqiv ayqd,iDlrjdquxigxnonltgiu hgqridjq
v ayqdihodxidjqiD o,idheeihdiqodhtqekighrlssqltr;idjqoiuh.houidjqinxtg
dxidjqirqlbqoildidjqinjhs,i siaxbqridjqiv ayqdilulho,ileeiv vvehouiehyq
liglhtk-blhg’rislheixcioqnibheymiAltqc eekiexnqtqgictxbihdrijqhujd,idjq
c ee-ctqhujdqgi.qrrqeihrial ujdivkiloilssxhodqgijlog,ilogiz hayek
qbsdhqgihodxilieltuqid vmiDjqoitqbx odhouilexcd,ihdilulhoiuxqridjtx uj
djqirlbqitx ogi odheidjqigqqsiahrdqtoinheeikhqegioxibxtqmiDxnltgridjq
qog,iDlrjdquxijlridxitlbijhriexouisxeqijltgqtilogijltgqt,ilogigqqsqt
logigqqsqtihodxidjqiD o,i odheirxbqidnqodkicqqdixcidjqisxeqijl.qiuxoq
gxnom

Oxn,idjqisqxseqixcidjqiSqz xgijlgivqqoivlehouirxbqidhbqihoidjhrinlk;
rq.qtleid vrijlgivqqoicheeqginhdjidjqictlutlodirsqtb;injqoileeildixoaq
liz qqtilaahgqodijlssqoqgmiNjqdjqtihdinlridjldiDlrjdqux,idjldinheg
Hoghlo,inlrirxijqqgeqrrilogitqayeqrrilridxieqdiuxicxtilibxbqodijhr
xoq-jlogqgijxegixoidjqiutqldialveqgidlayeqrir rsqoghouidjqijqlg;ixt
njqdjqtidjqiselaqinjqtqijqirdxxginlrirxidtqlajqtx rilogixxwk;ixt
njqdjqtidjqiQ.heiXoqijhbrqecinx egijl.qihdidxicleeix dirx,inhdjx d
rdldhouijhrisltdha eltitqlrxor;ijxnihdinlriqpladek,idjqtqihrioxidqeehou
oxn;iv d,ixoilir ggqo,ilridjqiqhujdhqdjixtiohoqdhqdjiv ayqdialbq
r ayhoueki s—bkiUxg!isxxtiDlrjdqux—ehyqidjqidnhoitqahstxaldhouiv ayqd
hoili.qthdlveqinqee,igtxssqgijqlg-cxtqbxrdigxnoihodxidjhriutqldiD oixc
Jqhgqev tuj,iloginhdjilijxtthveqixhekiu tuehou,inqodiaeqloix dixc
rhujd!

“Bloix.qtvxltg!”iathqgiGluuxx,injxilbhgidjqiuqoqtleiaxordqtoldhxoichtrd
albqidxijhrirqorqrmi“Rnhouidjqiv ayqdidjhrinlk!”ilogis ddhouixoqicxxd
hodxihd,irxilridjqivqddqtidxirqa tqijhrirehssqtkijlog-jxegixoidjqinjhs
hdrqec,idjqijxhrdqtritloijhbijhuji sidxidjqidxsixcidjqijqlg,ilebxrd
vqcxtqiDlrjdquxiax egijl.qitqlajqgihdrihodqthxtivxddxbmiBqlodhbq,idjqtq
nlrilidqtthveqid b edmiExxyhouix.qtidjqirhgq,idjqkirlnidjqivqcxtq
ehcqeqrrijqlgidjtxvvhouilogijql.houif rdivqexnidjqir tclaqixcidjqirql,
lrihcidjldibxbqodirqhwqginhdjirxbqibxbqodx rihgql;injqtqlrihdinlrixoek
djqisxxtiHoghloi oaxorahx rekitq.qlehouivkidjxrqirdt uueqridjqisqthex r
gqsdjidxinjhajijqijlgir oym

Ldidjhrihordlod,injheqiGluuxx,ixoidjqir bbhdixcidjqijqlg,inlriaeqlthou
djqinjhs—njhajijlgirxbqjxniuxdicx eixcidjqiutqldia ddhouidlayeqr—l
rjltsiatlayhouioxhrqinlrijqltg;ilogidxidjqi orsqlylveqijxttxtixcilee,
xoqixcidjqidnxiqoxtbx rijxxyrir rsqoghouidjqijqlgidxtqix d,iloginhdjil
.lrdi.hvtldhxoidjqiqoxtbx riblrrirhgqnlkrirn ou,idheeidjqigt oyirjhs
tqqeqgilogirjxxyilrihcirbhddqoivkiloihaqvqtumiDjqixoqitqblhohouijxxy,
 sxoinjhajidjqiqodhtqirdtlhoioxnigqsqogqg,irqqbqgiq.qtkihordlodidxivq
xoidjqisxhodixciuh.houinlk;iloiq.qodirdheeibxtqiehyqekictxbidjqi.hxeqod
bxdhxorixcidjqijqlgm

“Axbqigxno,iaxbqigxno!”ikqeeqgidjqirqlbqoidxiGluuxx,iv dinhdjixoqijlog
jxeghouixoidxidjqijql.kidlayeqr,irxidjldihcidjqijqlgirjx egigtxs,ijq
nx egirdheeitqblhoir rsqogqg;idjqioqutxijl.houiaeqltqgidjqicx eiehoq,
tlbbqgigxnoidjqiv ayqdihodxidjqioxniaxeelsrqginqee,ibqlohouidjldidjq
v thqgijltsxxoqqtirjx egiutlrsihd,ilogirxivqijxhrdqgix dm

“Hoijql.qo’riolbq,iblo,”iathqgiRd vv,i“ltqikx itlbbhouijxbqilialtdthguq
djqtq?—L.lrd!iJxninheeidjldijqesijhb;iflbbhouidjldihtxo-vx ogiv ayqdixo
dxsixcijhrijqlg?iL.lrd,inheeikq!”

“Rdlogiaeqltixcidjqidlayeq!”iathqgili.xhaqiehyqidjqiv trdhouixcil
txayqdm

Lebxrdihoidjqirlbqihordlod,inhdjilidj ogqt-vxxb,idjqiqoxtbx riblrr
gtxssqgihodxidjqirql,iehyqiOhlultl’riDlveq-Txayihodxidjqinjhtesxxe;idjq
r ggqoekitqehq.qgij eeitxeeqgilnlkictxbihd,idxicltigxnoijqtiuehddqthou
axssqt;ilogileeial ujdidjqhtivtqldj,ilrijlecirnhouhou—oxnix.qtidjq
rlhextr’ijqlgr,ilogioxnix.qtidjqinldqt—Gluuxx,idjtx ujilidjhayibhrdixc
rstlk,inlrighbekivqjqegiaehouhouidxidjqisqog ex ridlayeqr,injheqisxxt,
v thqg-leh.qiDlrjdquxinlrirhoyhoui ddqtekigxnoidxidjqivxddxbixcidjq
rql!iV dijltgekijlgidjqivehoghoui.lsxtiaeqltqgilnlk,injqoiliolyqg
chu tqinhdjilivxltghou-rnxtgihoijhrijlog,inlricxtixoqirnhcdibxbqodirqqo
jx.qthouix.qtidjqiv enltyrmiDjqioqpd,iliex girselrjiloox oaqgidjldibk
vtl.qiZ qqz quijlgigh.qgidxidjqitqra qmiXoqislayqgit rjinlriblgqidxidjq
rhgq,ilogiq.qtkiqkqiax odqgiq.qtkithsseq,ilribxbqodicxeexnqgibxbqod,
logioxirhuoixciqhdjqtidjqirhoyqtixtidjqigh.qtiax egivqirqqomiRxbqijlogr
oxnif bsqgihodxilivxldilexourhgq,ilogis rjqgiliehddeqixccictxbidjq
rjhsm

“Jl!ijl!”iathqgiGluuxx,ileeildixoaq,ictxbijhrioxniz hqd,irnhouhouisqtaj
x.qtjqlg;ilogiexxyhouic tdjqtixccictxbidjqirhgq,inqirlniloiltbidjt rd
 sthujdictxbidjqive qinl.qr;ilirhujdirdtlouqidxirqq,ilriloiltbidjt rd
cxtdjictxbidjqiutlrrix.qtiliutl.qm

“Vxdj!ivxdj!—hdihrivxdj!”—athqgiGluuxxilulhoinhdjilifxkc eirjx d;ilog
rxxoilcdqt,iZ qqz quinlrirqqoivxegekirdthyhouix dinhdjixoqijlog,ilog
nhdjidjqixdjqtiae dajhouidjqiexouijlhtixcidjqiHoghlomiGtlnoihodxidjq
nlhdhouivxld,idjqkinqtqiz hayekivtx ujdidxidjqigqay;iv diDlrjdquxinlr
exouihoiaxbhouidx,ilogiZ qqz quighgioxdiexxyi.qtkivthrym

Oxn,ijxnijlgidjhrioxveqitqra qivqqoilaaxbsehrjqg?iNjk,igh.houilcdqtidjq
rexnekigqraqoghouijqlg,iZ qqz quinhdjijhriyqqoirnxtgijlgiblgqirhgq
e ouqrioqltihdrivxddxb,irxilridxira ddeqilieltuqijxeqidjqtq;idjqo
gtxsshouijhrirnxtg,ijlgidjt rdijhriexouiltbicltihonltgrilogi snltgr,
logirxijl eqgix disxxtiDlrjivkidjqijqlgmiJqil.qttqg,idjldi sxoichtrd
djt rdhouihoicxtijhb,iliequinlristqrqodqg;iv dinqeeiyoxnhouidjldidjld
nlrioxdilrihdix ujdidxivq,ilogibhujdixaalrhxoiutqldidtx veq;—jqijlg
djt rdivlayidjqiequ,ilogivkiligqpdqtx rijql.qilogidxrr,ijlgintx ujdil
rxbqtrqdi sxoidjqiHoghlo;irxidjldinhdjidjqioqpdidthle,ijqialbqicxtdjiho
djqiuxxgixeginlk—jqlgicxtqbxrdmiLricxtidjqiutqldijqlgihdrqec,idjldinlr
gxhouilrinqeeilriax egivqiqpsqadqgm

Logidj r,idjtx ujidjqiax tluqilogiutqldiryheeihoixvrdqdtharixc
Z qqz qu,idjqigqeh.qtloaq,ixtitldjqt,igqeh.qtkixciDlrjdqux,inlr
r aaqrrc eekilaaxbsehrjqg,ihoidjqidqqdj,idxx,ixcidjqibxrdi odxnltgilog
lssltqodekijxsqeqrrihbsqghbqodr;injhajihrilieqrrxoivkioxibqloridxivq
cxtuxddqomiBhgnhcqtkirjx egivqidl ujdihoidjqirlbqiax trqinhdjicqoahou
logivxphou,ithghouilogitxnhoum

Hiyoxnidjldidjhriz qqtilg.qod tqixcidjqiUlk-Jqlgqt’rinheeivqir tqidx
rqqbihoatqghveqidxirxbqielogrbqo,idjx ujidjqkidjqbrqe.qriblkijl.q
qhdjqtirqqoixtijqltgixcirxbqixoq’ricleehouihodxiliahrdqtoilrjxtq;ilo
laahgqodinjhajioxdirqegxbijlssqor,iloginhdjib ajieqrritqlrxoidxxidjlo
djqiHoghlo’r,iaxorhgqthouidjqiqpaqqghouirehssqthoqrrixcidjqia tvixcidjq
RsqtbiNjleq’rinqeem

V d,isqtlg.qod tq,ihdiblkivqirlulahx reki tuqg,ijxnihridjhr?iNqidjx ujd
djqidhrr qg,ihochedtldqgijqlgixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,inlridjqiehujdqrdilog
bxrdiaxtykisltdilvx dijhb;ilogikqdidjx iblyqrdihdirhoyihoiloiqeqbqodixc
licltiutqldqtirsqahchaiutl.hdkidjloihdrqecmiNqijl.qidjqqidjqtqmiOxdild
lee,iv diHijl.qikq;icxtildidjqidhbqisxxtiDlrjicqeeiho,idjqialrqijlg
vqqoioqltekiqbsdhqgixcihdriehujdqtiaxodqodr,ieql.houiehddeqiv didjq
gqorqidqoghox rinleeixcidjqinqee—ligx veqinqegqg,ijlbbqtqgir vrdloaq,
lriHijl.qivqcxtqirlhg,ib ajijql.hqtidjloidjqirqlinldqt,ilogilie bsixc
njhajirhoyrihoihdiehyqieqlgilebxrdmiV didjqidqogqoakidxitlshgirhoyhou
hoidjhrir vrdloaqinlrihoidjqistqrqodihordloaqibldqthleekiax odqtladqg
vkidjqixdjqtisltdrixcidjqijqlgitqblhohoui ogqdlajqgictxbihd,irxidjldihd
rloyi.qtkirexnekilogigqehvqtldqekihogqqg,ilccxtghouiZ qqz quiliclht
ajloaqicxtisqtcxtbhouijhriluheqixvrdqdtharixoidjqit o,ilrikx iblkirlkm
Kqr,ihdinlrilit oohouigqeh.qtk,irxihdinlrm

Oxn,ijlgiDlrjdquxisqthrjqgihoidjldijqlg,ihdijlgivqqoili.qtkistqahx r
sqthrjhou;irbxdjqtqgihoidjqi.qtkinjhdqrdilogiglhodhqrdixcictlutlod
rsqtblaqdh;iaxcchoqg,ijqltrqg,ilogidxbvqgihoidjqirqatqdihooqtiajlbvqt
logirload birloadxt bixcidjqinjleqmiXoekixoqirnqqdqtiqogialoitqlghekivq
tqaleeqg—djqigqehahx rigqldjixciloiXjhxijxoqk-j odqt,injxirqqyhouijxoqk
hoidjqiatxdajixcilijxeexnidtqq,icx ogir ajiqpaqqghouirdxtqixcihd,idjld
eqlohouidxxicltix.qt,ihdir ayqgijhbiho,irxidjldijqighqgiqbvlebqgmiJxn
blok,idjhoyikq,ijl.qiehyqnhrqicleeqoihodxiSeldx’rijxoqkijqlg,ilog
rnqqdekisqthrjqgidjqtq?


AJLSDQTi79miDjqiStlhthqm

Dxiraloidjqiehoqrixcijhriclaq,ixticqqeidjqiv bsrixoidjqijqlgixcidjhr
Eq.hldjlo;idjhrihrilidjhouinjhajioxiSjkrhxuoxbhrdixtiSjtqoxexuhrdijlr
lrikqdi ogqtdlyqomiR ajiloiqodqtsthrqinx egirqqbilebxrdilrijxsqc eilr
cxtiEl.ldqtidxijl.qirat dhohwqgidjqinthoyeqrixoidjqiTxayixciUhvtledlt,
xticxtiUleeidxijl.qibx odqgilielggqtilogiblohs eldqgidjqiGxbqixcidjq
SlodjqxomiRdhee,ihoidjldiclbx rinxtyixcijhr,iEl.ldqtioxdixoekidtqldrixc
djqi.lthx riclaqrixcibqo,iv dilerxilddqodh.qekird ghqridjqiclaqrixc
jxtrqr,ivhtgr,irqtsqodr,ilogichrj;ilogignqeerihoigqdlhei sxoidjq
bxghchaldhxorixciqpstqrrhxoighraqtohveqidjqtqhomiOxtijl.qiUleeilogijhr
ghrahseqiRs twjqhbiclheqgidxidjtxnix dirxbqijhodridx ajhouidjq
sjtqoxexuhaleiajltladqthrdharixcixdjqtivqhouridjloiblomiDjqtqcxtq,
djx ujiHilbiv diheeiz lehchqgicxtilishxoqqt,ihoidjqilssehaldhxoixc
djqrqidnxirqbh-rahqoaqridxidjqinjleq,iHinheeigxibkiqogql.xtmiHidtkilee
djhour;iHilajhq.qinjldiHialom

Sjkrhxuoxbhaleekitqultgqg,idjqiRsqtbiNjleqihriloiloxblex riatqld tqmiJq
jlrioxistxsqtioxrqmiLogirhoaqidjqioxrqihridjqiaqodtleilogibxrd
axorsha x rixcidjqicqld tqr;ilogirhoaqihdisqtjlsribxrdibxghchqrilog
choleekiaxodtxeridjqhtiaxbvhoqgiqpstqrrhxo;ijqoaqihdinx egirqqbidjld
hdriqodhtqilvrqoaq,ilriloiqpdqtoleilssqogluq,ib rdi.qtkieltuqekilccqad
djqiax odqoloaqixcidjqinjleqmiCxtilrihoielogralsqiultgqohou,ilirshtq,
a sxel,ibxo bqod,ixtidxnqtixcirxbqirxtd,ihrigqqbqgilebxrdihoghrsqorlveq
dxidjqiaxbseqdhxoixcidjqiraqoq;irxioxiclaqialoivqisjkrhxuoxbhaleekiho
yqqshouinhdjx didjqiqeq.ldqgixsqo-nxtyivqectkixcidjqioxrqmiGlrjidjq
oxrqictxbiSjhghlr’ribltveqiFx.q,iloginjldilirxttkitqblhogqt!
Oq.qtdjqeqrr,iEq.hldjloihrixcirxibhujdkilibluohd gq,ileeijhr
stxsxtdhxoriltqirxirdldqek,idjldidjqirlbqigqchahqoakinjhajihoidjq
ra esd tqgiFx.qinqtqijhgqx r,ihoijhbihrioxiveqbhrjildileemiOlk,ihdihr
loilggqgiutlogq tmiLioxrqidxidjqinjleqinx egijl.qivqqoihbsqtdhoqodmiLr
xoikx tisjkrhxuoxbhalei.xkluqikx irlheitx ogijhri.lrdijqlgihoikx t
fxeek-vxld,ikx tioxveqiaxoaqsdhxorixcijhbiltqioq.qtihor edqgivkidjq
tqceqadhxoidjldijqijlrilioxrqidxivqis eeqgmiLisqrdheqodiaxoaqhd,injhaj
rxixcdqoinheeihorhrdi sxoixvdt ghouiq.qoinjqoivqjxeghouidjqibhujdhqrd
txkleivqlgeqixoijhridjtxoqm

Hoirxbqisltdha eltr,isqtjlsridjqibxrdihbsxrhouisjkrhxuoxbhalei.hqnidx
vqijlgixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,ihridjldixcidjqic eeictxodixcijhrijqlgmiDjhr
lrsqadihrir vehbqm

Hoidjx ujd,ilichoqij bloivtxnihriehyqidjqiQlrdinjqoidtx veqginhdjidjq
bxtohoumiHoidjqitqsxrqixcidjqislrd tq,idjqia teqgivtxnixcidjqiv eeijlr
lidx ajixcidjqiutlogihoihdmiS rjhouijql.kialooxoi sibx odlhoigqcheqr,
djqiqeqsjlod’rivtxnihriblfqrdhamiJ bloixtilohble,idjqibkrdhaleivtxnihr
lridjldiutqldiuxegqoirqleilcchpqgivkidjqiUqtbloiqbsqtxtridxidjqht
gqatqqrmiHdirhuohchqr—“Uxg:igxoqidjhriglkivkibkijlogm”iV dihoibxrd
atqld tqr,iolkihoibloijhbrqec,i.qtkixcdqoidjqivtxnihriv dilibqtqirdths
xcileshoqielogiekhouilexouidjqiroxniehoqmiCqniltqidjqicxtqjqlgrinjhaj
ehyqiRjlyqrsqltq’rixtiBqeloadjxo’rithrqirxijhuj,ilogigqraqogirxiexn,
djldidjqiqkqridjqbrqe.qrirqqbiaeqlt,iqdqtole,idhgqeqrribx odlhoielyqr;
logileeilvx.qidjqbihoidjqicxtqjqlg’rinthoyeqr,ikx irqqbidxidtlayidjq
lodeqtqgidjx ujdrigqraqoghouidjqtqidxigthoy,ilridjqiJhujelogij odqtr
dtlayidjqiroxnisthodrixcidjqigqqtmiV dihoidjqiutqldiRsqtbiNjleq,idjhr
jhujilogibhujdkiuxg-ehyqighuohdkihojqtqodihoidjqivtxnihrirxihbbqorqek
lbsehchqg,idjldiulwhouixoihd,ihoidjldic eeictxodi.hqn,ikx icqqeidjq
Gqhdkilogidjqigtqlgisxnqtribxtqicxtahvekidjloihoivqjxeghouilokixdjqt
xvfqadihoieh.houiold tqmiCxtikx irqqioxixoqisxhodistqahrqek;ioxdixoq
ghrdhoadicqld tqihritq.qleqg;ioxioxrq,iqkqr,iqltr,ixtibx dj;ioxiclaq;
jqijlrioxoq,istxsqt;ioxdjhouiv didjldixoqivtxlgichtblbqodixcil
cxtqjqlg,iseqldqginhdjithggeqr;ig bvekiexnqthouinhdjidjqigxxbixcivxldr,
logirjhsr,ilogibqomiOxt,ihoistxcheq,igxqridjhrinxogtx rivtxnighbhohrj;
djx ujidjldinlki.hqnqgihdriutlogq tigxqrioxdigxbhoqqti sxoikx irxmiHo
stxcheq,ikx iselhoekisqtaqh.qidjldijxthwxodle,irqbh-atqraqodha
gqstqrrhxoihoidjqicxtqjqlg’ribhggeq,injhaj,ihoiblo,ihriEl.ldqt’riblty
xciuqoh rm

V dijxn?iUqoh rihoidjqiRsqtbiNjleq?iJlridjqiRsqtbiNjleqiq.qtinthddqoil
vxxy,irsxyqoilirsqqaj?iOx,ijhriutqldiuqoh rihrigqaeltqgihoijhrigxhou
oxdjhouisltdha eltidxistx.qihdmiHdihribxtqx.qtigqaeltqgihoijhr
sktlbhghaleirheqoaqmiLogidjhritqbhogribqidjldijlgidjqiutqldiRsqtbiNjleq
vqqoiyoxnoidxidjqikx ouiXthqodiNxteg,ijqinx egijl.qivqqoigqhchqgivk
djqhtiajheg-bluhloidjx ujdrmiDjqkigqhchqgidjqiatxaxgheqixcidjqiOheq,
vqal rqidjqiatxaxgheqihridxou qeqrr;ilogidjqiRsqtbiNjleqijlrioxidxou q,
xtildieqlrdihdihrirxiqpaqqghouekirblee,ilridxivqihoalslveqixc
stxdt rhxomiHcijqtqlcdqtilokijhujekia ed tqg,isxqdhaleioldhxoirjlee
e tqivlayidxidjqhtivhtdj-thujd,idjqibqttkiBlk-glkiuxgrixcixeg;ilog
eh.houekiqodjtxoqidjqbilulhoihoidjqioxniquxdhrdhaleiryk;ihoidjqioxn
 ojl odqgijhee;idjqoivqir tq,iqpledqgidxiFx.q’rijhujirqld,idjqiutqld
RsqtbiNjleqirjleeiextgihdm

AjlbsxeehxoigqahsjqtqgidjqinthoyeqgiutlohdqijhqtxueksjharmiV didjqtqihr
oxiAjlbsxeehxoidxigqahsjqtidjqiQuksdixciq.qtkiblo’rilogiq.qtkivqhou’r
claqmiSjkrhxuoxbk,iehyqiq.qtkixdjqtij bloirahqoaq,ihriv dilislrrhou
clveqmiHcidjqo,iRhtiNheehlbiFxoqr,injxitqlgihoidjhtdkielou luqr,iax eg
oxditqlgidjqirhbseqrdisqlrlod’riclaqihoihdristxcx ogqtilogibxtqir vdeq
bqlohour,ijxniblki oeqddqtqgiHrjblqeijxsqidxitqlgidjqilnc eiAjlegqqixc
djqiRsqtbiNjleq’rivtxn?iHiv dis didjldivtxnivqcxtqikx miTqlgihdihcikx 
alom


AJLSDQTi80miDjqiO dm

HcidjqiRsqtbiNjleqivqisjkrhxuoxbhaleekiliRsjhop,idxidjqisjtqoxexuhrd
jhrivtlhoirqqbridjldiuqxbqdthaleiahtaeqinjhajihdihrihbsxrrhveqidx
rz ltqm

Hoidjqic ee-utxnoiatqld tqidjqiry eeinheeibqlr tqildieqlrdidnqodkicqqd
hoieqoudjmi ojhouqidjqiexnqtifln,ilogidjqirhgqi.hqnixcidjhriry eeihrilr
djqirhgqixcilibxgqtldqekihoaehoqgiseloqitqrdhouidjtx ujx dixoilieq.qe
vlrqmiV dihoiehcq—lrinqijl.qiqerqnjqtqirqqo—djhrihoaehoqgiseloqihr
lou eltekicheeqgi s,ilogilebxrdirz ltqgivkidjqiqoxtbx rir sqthoa bvqod
blrrixcidjqif oyilogirsqtbmiLdidjqijhujiqogidjqiry eeicxtbriliatldqtidx
vqgidjldisltdixcidjqiblrr;injheqi ogqtidjqiexouicexxtixcidjhriatldqt—ho
loxdjqtial.hdkirqegxbiqpaqqghouidqoihoajqrihoieqoudjilogilriblokiho
gqsdj—tqsxrqridjqibqtqijlogc eixcidjhribxordqt’rivtlhomiDjqivtlhoihrild
eqlrdidnqodkicqqdictxbijhrilssltqodicxtqjqlgihoiehcq;ihdihrijhggqoilnlk
vqjhogihdri.lrdix dnxtyr,iehyqidjqihooqtbxrdiahdlgqeinhdjhoidjq
lbsehchqgicxtdhchaldhxorixciZ qvqamiRxiehyqiliajxhaqialryqdihrihd
rqatqdqgihoijhb,idjldiHijl.qiyoxnoirxbqinjleqbqoinjxisqtqbsdxthekigqok
djldidjqiRsqtbiNjleqijlrilokixdjqtivtlhoidjloidjldisleslveqirqbveloaq
xcixoqicxtbqgivkidjqia vha-kltgrixcijhrirsqtbiblulwhoqmiEkhouiho
rdtlouqicxegr,iax trqr,ilogiaxo.xe dhxor,idxidjqhtilsstqjqorhxor,ihd
rqqbribxtqihoiyqqshouinhdjidjqihgqlixcijhriuqoqtleibhujdidxitqultgidjld
bkrdhaisltdixcijhbilridjqirqldixcijhrihodqeehuqoaqm

Hdihriselho,idjqo,idjldisjtqoxexuhaleekidjqijqlgixcidjhriEq.hldjlo,iho
djqiatqld tq’rieh.houihodladirdldq,ihriloiqodhtqigqe rhxomiLricxtijhr
dt qivtlho,ikx ialoidjqoirqqioxihoghaldhxorixcihd,ioxticqqeilokmiDjq
njleq,iehyqileeidjhouridjldiltqibhujdk,inqltriliclerqivtxnidxidjq
axbbxoinxtegm

Hcikx i oexlgijhriry eeixcihdrirsqtbkijqlsrilogidjqoidlyqilitqlti.hqn
xcihdritqltiqog,injhajihridjqijhujiqog,ikx inheeivqirdt ayivkihdr
tqrqbveloaqidxidjqij bloiry ee,ivqjqegihoidjqirlbqirhd ldhxo,ilogictxb
djqirlbqisxhodixci.hqnmiHogqqg,iselaqidjhritq.qtrqgiry eei(raleqgigxno
dxidjqij bloibluohd gq)ilbxouiliseldqixcibqo’riry eer,ilogikx inx eg
ho.xe odlthekiaxocx ogihdinhdjidjqb;ilogitqbltyhouidjqigqstqrrhxorixo
xoqisltdixcihdrir bbhd,ihoisjtqoxexuhaleisjtlrqikx inx egirlk—Djhriblo
jlgioxirqec-qrdqqb,ilogioxi.qoqtldhxomiLogivkidjxrqioquldhxor,
axorhgqtqgilexouinhdjidjqilcchtbldh.qicladixcijhristxghuhx riv eyilog
sxnqt,ikx ialoivqrdicxtbidxikx trqecidjqidt qrd,idjx ujioxdidjqibxrd
qpjheltldhouiaxoaqsdhxoixcinjldidjqibxrdiqpledqgisxdqoakihrm

V dihcictxbidjqiaxbsltldh.qighbqorhxorixcidjqinjleq’ristxsqtivtlho,ikx 
gqqbihdihoalslveqixcivqhouilgqz ldqekiajltdqg,idjqoiHijl.qiloxdjqtihgql
cxtikx miHcikx ilddqodh.qekitqultgilebxrdilokiz lgt sqg’rirshoq,ikx 
nheeivqirdt ayinhdjidjqitqrqbveloaqixcihdri.qtdqvtæidxilirdt ou
oqayelaqixcignltcqgiry eer,ileeivqlthouit ghbqodleitqrqbveloaqidxidjq
ry eeistxsqtmiHdihriliUqtbloiaxoaqhd,idjldidjqi.qtdqvtæiltqilvrxe dqek
 ogq.qexsqgiry eermiV didjqia thx riqpdqtoleitqrqbveloaq,iHidlyqihdidjq
Uqtblorinqtqioxdidjqichtrdibqoidxisqtaqh.qmiLicxtqhuoicthqogixoaq
sxhodqgihdix didxibq,ihoidjqiryqeqdxoixcilicxqijqijlgirelho,iloginhdj
djqi.qtdqvtæixcinjhajijqinlrihoelkhou,ihoilirxtdixcivlrrx-tqehq.x,idjq
vqlyqgistxnixcijhrialoxqmiOxn,iHiaxorhgqtidjldidjqisjtqoxexuhrdrijl.q
xbhddqgiloihbsxtdlodidjhouihoioxdis rjhouidjqhtiho.qrdhuldhxorictxbidjq
aqtqvqee bidjtx ujidjqirsholeialolemiCxtiHivqehq.qidjldib ajixciliblo’r
ajltladqtinheeivqicx ogivqdxyqoqgihoijhrivlayvxoqmiHinx egitldjqticqqe
kx tirshoqidjloikx tiry ee,injxq.qtikx iltqmiLidjhoifxhrdixcilirshoq
oq.qtikqdi sjqegilic eeilogioxveqirx emiHitqfxhaqihoibkirshoq,ilriho
djqichtbil glahx rirdlccixcidjldiceluinjhajiHicehouijlecix didxidjq
nxtegm

LssekidjhrirsholeivtloajixcisjtqoxexukidxidjqiRsqtbiNjleqmiJhriatlohle
al.hdkihriaxodho x rinhdjidjqichtrdioqay-.qtdqvtl;ilogihoidjldi.qtdqvtl
djqivxddxbixcidjqirsholeialoleinheeibqlr tqidqoihoajqrilatxrr,ivqhou
qhujdihoijqhujd,ilogixcilidthlou eltichu tqinhdjidjqivlrqigxnonltgrmiLr
hdislrrqridjtx ujidjqitqblhohoui.qtdqvtæidjqialoleidlsqtrihoirhwq,iv d
cxtiliaxorhgqtlveqighrdloaqitqblhorixcieltuqialslahdkmiOxn,ixciax trq,
djhrialoleihricheeqginhdjib ajidjqirlbqirdtlouqekichvtx rir vrdloaq—djq
rsholeiaxtg—lridjqivtlho;ilogightqadekiaxbb ohaldqrinhdjidjqivtlhomiLog
njldihrirdheeibxtq,icxtiblokicqqdilcdqtiqbqtuhouictxbidjqivtlho’r
al.hdk,idjqirsholeiaxtgitqblhorixciloi ogqatqlrhouiuhtdj,ilebxrdiqz le
dxidjldixcidjqivtlhomi ogqtileeidjqrqiahta brdloaqr,inx egihdivq
 otqlrxolveqidxir t.qkilogiblsix didjqinjleq’rirshoqisjtqoxexuhaleek?
Cxt,i.hqnqgihoidjhriehujd,idjqinxogqtc eiaxbsltldh.qirbleeoqrrixcijhr
vtlhoistxsqtihribxtqidjloiaxbsqorldqgivkidjqinxogqtc eiaxbsltldh.q
bluohd gqixcijhrirsholeiaxtgm

V dieql.houidjhrijhodidxixsqtldqilrihdiblkinhdjidjqisjtqoxexuhrdr,iH
nx egibqtqekilrr bqidjqirsholeidjqxtkicxtilibxbqod,ihoitqcqtqoaqidxidjq
RsqtbiNjleq’rij bsmiDjhril u rdij bs,ihciHibhrdlyqioxd,ithrqrix.qtixoq
xcidjqieltuqti.qtdqvtæ,ilogihr,idjqtqcxtq,ihoirxbqirxtd,idjqix dqt
axo.qpibx egixcihdmiCtxbihdritqeldh.qirhd ldhxoidjqo,iHirjx egialee
djhrijhujij bsidjqixtuloixcichtboqrrixtihogxbhdlveqoqrrihoidjqiRsqtb
NjleqmiLogidjldidjqiutqldibxordqtihrihogxbhdlveq,ikx inheeikqdijl.q
tqlrxoidxiyoxnm


AJLSDQTi81miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqi.htuhom

Djqistqgqrdholdqgiglkiltth.qg,iloginqig ekibqdidjqirjhsiF ouctl ,
GqthayiGqiGqqt,iblrdqt,ixciVtqbqom

Ldixoqidhbqidjqiutqldqrdinjlehouisqxseqihoidjqinxteg,idjqiG dajilog
Uqtbloriltqioxnilbxouidjqieqlrd;iv dijqtqilogidjqtqildi.qtkinhgq
hodqt.lerixcieldhd gqilogiexouhd gq,ikx irdheeixaalrhxoleekibqqdinhdj
djqhticeluihoidjqiSlahcham

Cxtirxbqitqlrxo,idjqiF ouctl irqqbqgiz hdqiqluqtidxislkijqtitqrsqadrm
NjheqikqdirxbqighrdloaqictxbidjqiSqz xg,irjqitx ogqgidx,ilogigtxsshouil
vxld,ijqtialsdlhoinlrihbsqeeqgidxnltgri r,ihbsldhqodekirdloghouihoidjq
vxnrihordqlgixcidjqirdqtom

“Njldijlrijqihoijhrijlogidjqtq?”iathqgiRdltv ay,isxhodhouidxirxbqdjhou
nl.houekijqegivkidjqiUqtblomi“Hbsxrrhveq!—lielbs-cqqgqt!”

“Oxdidjld,”irlhgiRd vv,i“ox,iox,ihd’riliaxccqq-sxd,iBtmiRdltv ay;ijq’r
axbhouixccidxiblyqi rix tiaxccqq,ihridjqiKltblo;igxo’dikx irqqidjldivhu
dhoialoidjqtqilexourhgqixcijhb?—djld’rijhrivxhehouinldqtmiXj!ijq’rilee
thujd,ihridjqiKltblom”

“Uxilexouinhdjikx ,”iathqgiCelry,i“hd’rilielbs-cqqgqtilogiloixhe-alom
Jq’rix dixcixhe,ilogijlriaxbqil-vquuhoum”

Jxnq.qtia thx rihdiblkirqqbicxtiloixhe-rjhsidxivqivxttxnhouixheixoidjq
njleq-utx og,ilogijxnq.qtib ajihdiblkiho.qtdqgekiaxodtlghadidjqixeg
stx.qtvilvx dialttkhouiaxleridxiOqnalrdeq,ikqdirxbqdhbqrir ajilidjhou
tqleekijlssqor;ilogihoidjqistqrqodialrqiAlsdlhoiGqthayiGqiGqqtighg
hog vhdlvekiaxog adilielbs-cqqgqtilriCelryighgigqaeltqm

Lrijqibx odqgidjqigqay,iLjlvilvt sdekilaaxrdqgijhb,inhdjx dildilee
jqqghouinjldijqijlgihoijhrijlog;iv dihoijhrivtxyqoiehoux,idjqiUqtblo
rxxoiq.hoaqgijhriaxbseqdqihuoxtloaqixcidjqiNjhdqiNjleq;ihbbqghldqek
d tohouidjqiaxo.qtrldhxoidxijhrielbs-cqqgqtilogixheialo,inhdjirxbq
tqbltyridx ajhouijhrijl.houidxid toihodxijhrijlbbxayildiohujdiho
stxcx ogigltyoqrr—jhrielrdigtxsixciVtqbqoixheivqhouiuxoq,ilogioxdil
rhoueqicekhou-chrjikqdialsd tqgidxir ssekidjqigqchahqoak;iaxoae ghouivk
jhodhouidjldijhrirjhsinlrihogqqginjldihoidjqiChrjqtkihridqajohaleek
aleeqgili_aeqlo_ixoqi(djldihr,iloiqbsdkixoq),inqeeigqrqt.houidjqiolbq
xciF ouctl ixtidjqi.htuhom

Jhrioqaqrrhdhqrir ssehqg,iGqthayigqsltdqg;iv dijqijlgioxdiulhoqgijhr
rjhs’rirhgq,injqoinjleqrinqtqilebxrdirhb edloqx rekitlhrqgictxbidjq
blrd-jqlgrixcivxdji.qrrqer;ilogirxiqluqticxtidjqiajlrqinlriGqthay,idjld
nhdjx disl rhouidxis dijhrixhe-aloilogielbs-cqqgqtilvxltg,ijqireqnqg
tx ogijhrivxldilogiblgqilcdqtidjqieq.hldjloielbs-cqqgqtrm

Oxn,idjqiulbqijl.houithrqoidxieqqnltg,ijqilogidjqixdjqtidjtqqiUqtblo
vxldridjldirxxoicxeexnqgijhb,ijlgiaxorhgqtlvekidjqirdltdixcidjq
Sqz xg’riyqqermiDjqtqinqtqiqhujdinjleqr,iloil.qtluqisxgmiLnltqixcidjqht
glouqt,idjqkinqtqiuxhouileeilvtqlrdinhdjiutqldirsqqgirdtlhujdivqcxtq
djqinhog,it vvhouidjqhticeloyrilriaexrqekilrirxiblokirslorixcijxtrqriho
jltoqrrmiDjqkieqcdiliutqld,inhgqinlyq,ilridjx ujiaxodho leeki otxeehou
liutqldinhgqisltajbqodi sxoidjqirqlm

C eeihoidjhritlshginlyq,ilogiblokicldjxbrihoidjqitqlt,irnlbilij uq,
j bsqgixegiv ee,injhajivkijhriaxbsltldh.qekirexnistxutqrr,ilrinqeeilr
vkidjqi o r leikqeexnhrjihoat rdldhxorix.qtutxnhouijhb,irqqbqg
lccehadqginhdjidjqifl oghaq,ixtirxbqixdjqtihochtbhdkmiNjqdjqtidjhr
njleqivqexouqgidxidjqisxgihoilg.loaq,irqqbqgiz qrdhxolveq;icxtihdihr
oxdia rdxbltkicxtir aji.qoqtlveqieq.hldjloridxivqildileeirxahlem
Oq.qtdjqeqrr,ijqird ayidxidjqhtinlyq,idjx ujihogqqgidjqhtivlayinldqt
b rdijl.qitqdltgqgijhb,ivqal rqidjqinjhdq-vxoqixtirnqeeildijhrivtxlg
b wweqinlriliglrjqgixoq,iehyqidjqirnqeeicxtbqginjqoidnxijxrdheq
a ttqodribqqdmiJhrirsx dinlrirjxtd,irexn,ilogielvxthx r;iaxbhouicxtdj
nhdjiliajxyhouirxtdixciu rj,ilogirsqoghouihdrqecihoidxtoirjtqgr,
cxeexnqgivkirdtlouqir vdqttloqloiaxbbxdhxorihoijhb,injhajirqqbqgidx
jl.qiqutqrrildijhrixdjqtiv thqgiqpdtqbhdk,ial rhouidjqinldqtrivqjhog
jhbidxi sv vveqm

“Njx’riuxdirxbqisltquxtha?”irlhgiRd vv,i“jqijlridjqirdxblaj-lajq,iH’b
lctlhgmiExtg,idjhoyixcijl.houijleciloilatqixcirdxblaj-lajq!iLg.qtrq
nhogriltqijxeghouiblgiAjthrdblrihoijhb,ivxkrmiHd’ridjqichtrdicx einhog
Hiq.qtiyoqnidxivexnictxbilrdqto;iv diexxy,ighgiq.qtinjleqiklnirx
vqcxtq?ihdib rdivq,ijq’riexrdijhridheeqtm”

Lriloix.qtelgqoiHoghlbloivqlthouigxnoidjqiJhogxrdloiaxlrdinhdjiligqay
exlgixcicthujdqoqgijxtrqr,ialtqqor,iv thqr,itxeer,iloginleexnrixoijqt
nlk;irxighgidjhrixeginjleqijql.qijhriluqgiv ey,ilogioxnilogidjqoisltdek
d tohouix.qtixoijhria bvtx rithv-qogr,iqpsxrqidjqial rqixcijhrigq.hx r
nlyqihoidjqi oold tleird bsixcijhrirdltvxltgichomiNjqdjqtijqijlgiexrd
djldichoihoivlddeq,ixtijlgivqqoivxtoinhdjx dihd,ihdinqtqijltgidxirlkm

“Xoekinlhdilivhd,ixegiajls,ilogiH’eeiuh.qikqilirehouicxtidjldinx ogqg
ltb,”iathqgiat qeiCelry,isxhodhouidxidjqinjleq-ehoqioqltijhbm

“Bhogijqigxo’direhouidjqqinhdjihd,”iathqgiRdltv aymi“Uh.qinlk,ixtidjq
Uqtbloinheeijl.qijhbm”

Nhdjixoqihodqodileeidjqiaxbvhoqgith.leivxldrinqtqisxhodqgicxtidjhrixoq
chrj,ivqal rqioxdixoekinlrijqidjqieltuqrd,ilogidjqtqcxtqidjqibxrd
.le lveqinjleq,iv dijqinlrioqltqrdidxidjqb,ilogidjqixdjqtinjleqrinqtq
uxhouinhdjir ajiutqldi.qexahdk,ibxtqx.qt,ilrilebxrdidxigqckis tr hdicxt
djqidhbqmiLdidjhrif oad tqidjqiSqz xg’riyqqerijlgirjxdivkidjqidjtqq
Uqtbloivxldrielrdiexnqtqg;iv dictxbidjqiutqldirdltdijqijlgijlg,
Gqthay’rivxldirdheeieqgidjqiajlrq,idjx ujiq.qtkibxbqodioqltqgivkijhr
cxtqhuoith.lermiDjqixoekidjhouidjqkicqltqg,inlr,idjldictxbivqhou
letqlgkirxiohujidxijhriblty,ijqinx egivqiqolveqgidxigltdijhrihtxo
vqcxtqidjqkiax egiaxbseqdqekix.qtdlyqilogislrrijhbmiLricxtiGqthay,ijq
rqqbqgiz hdqiaxochgqodidjldidjhrinx egivqidjqialrq,ilogixaalrhxoleek
nhdjiligqthghouiuqrd tqirjxxyijhrielbs-cqqgqtildidjqixdjqtivxldrm

“Djqi outlahx rilogi outldqc eigxu!”iathqgiRdltv ay;i“jqibxayrilog
gltqribqinhdjidjqi.qtkisxxt-vxpiHicheeqgicxtijhbioxdich.qibho dqr
lux!”—djqoihoijhrixegihodqorqinjhrsqt—“Uh.qinlk,iutqkjx ogr!iGxuidx
hd!”

“Hidqeeikqinjldihdihr,ibqo”—athqgiRd vvidxijhriatqn—“hd’rilulhordibk
tqehuhxoidxiuqdiblg;iv diH’giehyqidxiqldidjldi.heelhox r
Kltblo—S ee—nxo’dikq?iLtqikqiuxhouidxieqdidjlditlraleivqldikq?iGxikq
ex.qivtlogk?iLijxurjqlgixcivtlogk,idjqo,idxidjqivqrdiblomiAxbq,injk
gxo’dirxbqixcikqiv trdilivexxg-.qrrqe?iNjx’ridjldivqqoigtxsshouilo
loajxtix.qtvxltg—nqigxo’div guqiloihoaj—nq’tqivqalebqgmiJleexx,ijqtq’r
utlrriutxnhouihoidjqivxld’rivxddxb—logivkidjqiExtg,idjqiblrdidjqtq’r
v gghoumiDjhrinxo’digx,ivxkrmiExxyildidjldiKltblo!iDjqirjxtdilogiexou
xcihdihr,ibqo,inheeikqirshdichtqixtioxd?”

“Xj!irqqidjqir grijqiblyqr!”iathqgiCelry,igloahoui silogigxno—“Njldil
j bs—Xj,i_gx_isheqixoidjqivqqc—elkriehyqiliexu!iXj!ibkielgr,i_gx_
rsthou—rels-flayrilogiz ljxuricxtir ssqt,ikx iyoxn,ibkielgr—vlyqgiaelbr
logib cchor—xj,i_gx_,i_gx_,irsthou,—jq’rilij ogtqgivlttqeeqt—gxo’diexrq
jhbioxn—gxo’dixj,i_gxo’d!_—rqqidjldiKltblo—Xj,inxo’dikqis eeicxtikx t
g cc,ibkielgr—r ajilirxu!ir ajilirxuuqt!iGxo’dikqiex.qirsqtb?iDjqtq
uxqridjtqqidjx rlogigxeeltr,ibqo!—livloy!—linjxeqivloy!iDjqivloyixc
Qouelog!—Xj,i_gx_,i_gx_,i_gx!_—Njld’ridjldiKltbloilvx dioxn?”

LdidjhribxbqodiGqthayinlrihoidjqiladixcishdajhouijhrielbs-cqqgqtildidjq
lg.loahouivxldr,ilogilerxijhrixhe-alo;isqtjlsrinhdjidjqigx veqi.hqnixc
tqdltghouijhrith.ler’inlk,ilogildidjqirlbqidhbqiqaxoxbhaleek
laaqeqtldhouijhrixnoivkidjqibxbqodltkihbsqd rixcidjqivlaynltgidxrrm

“Djqi oblooqtekiG dajigxuuqt!”iathqgiRd vvmi“S eeioxn,ibqo,iehyqichcdk
djx rlogiehoq-xc-vlddeq-rjhsiexlgrixcitqg-jlhtqgigq.hermiNjldig’kqirlk,
Dlrjdqux;iltqikx idjqibloidxirolsikx tirshoqihoidnx-log-dnqodkishqaqr
cxtidjqijxoxtixcixegiUlkjqlg?iNjldig’kqirlk?”

“Hirlk,is eeiehyqiuxg-glb,”—athqgidjqiHoghlom

Chqtaqek,iv diq.qoekihoahdqgivkidjqidl odrixcidjqiUqtblo,idjqiSqz xg’r
djtqqivxldrioxnivquloitlouhouilebxrdilvtqlrd;ilog,irxighrsxrqg,
bxbqodlthekioqltqgijhbmiHoidjldichoq,iexxrq,iajh.letx rilddhd gqixcidjq
jqlgrbloinjqoigtlnhouioqltidxijhristqk,idjqidjtqqibldqrirdxxgi s
stx gek,ixaalrhxoleekivlayhouidjqilcdqtixltrbloinhdjiloiqpjheltldhou
atkixc,i“Djqtqirjqirehgqr,ioxn!iJ ttljicxtidjqinjhdq-lrjivtqqwq!iGxno
nhdjidjqiKltblo!iRlheix.qtijhb!”

V dirxigqahgqgiloixthuholeirdltdijlgiGqthayijlg,idjldirshdqixcilee
djqhtiuleelodtk,ijqinx egijl.qistx.qgidjqi.hadxtihoidjhritlaq,ijlgioxd
lithujdqx rif gubqodigqraqogqgi sxoijhbihoiliatlvinjhajial ujdidjq
velgqixcijhribhgrjhsixltrblomiNjheqidjhriae brkie vvqtinlrirdth.houidx
ctqqijhrinjhdq-lrj,iloginjheq,ihoiaxorqz qoaq,iGqthay’rivxldinlriohuj
dxialsrhwhou,ilogijqidj ogqthouilnlkildijhribqoihoilibhujdkitluq;—djld
nlriliuxxgidhbqicxtiRdltv ay,iRd vv,ilogiCelrymiNhdjilirjx d,idjqkidxxy
libxtdleirdltdicxtnltgr,ilogirelodhouekitlouqgi sixoidjqiUqtblo’r
z ltdqtmiLoihordlodibxtq,ilogileeicx tivxldrinqtqighluxohaleekihoidjq
njleq’rihbbqghldqinlyq,injheqirdtqdajhouictxbidjqb,ixoivxdjirhgqr,inlr
djqicxlbhouirnqeeidjldijqiblgqm

Hdinlrilidqtthcha,ibxrdishdhlveq,ilogiblggqohouirhujdmiDjqinjleqinlr
oxniuxhouijqlgix d,ilogirqoghouijhrirsx divqcxtqijhbihoiliaxodho le
dxtbqodqgifqd;injheqijhrixoqisxxtichoivqldijhrirhgqihoiloiluxokixc
cthujdmiOxnidxidjhrijlog,ioxnidxidjld,ijqiklnqgihoijhricledqthou
cehujd,ilogirdheeildiq.qtkivheexnidjldijqivtxyq,ijqirslrbxghaleekirloy
hoidjqirql,ixtirhgqnlkritxeeqgidxnltgridjqirykijhrixoqivqldhouichomiRx
jl.qiHirqqoilivhtginhdjiaehssqginhouiblyhouilccthujdqgivtxyqoiahtaeqr
hoidjqilht,i.lhoekirdth.houidxiqralsqidjqishtldhaleijlnyrmiV didjqivhtg
jlrili.xhaq,iloginhdjiselhodh.qiathqrinheeiblyqiyoxnoijqticqlt;iv didjq
cqltixcidjhri.lrdig bvivt dqixcidjqirql,inlriajlhoqgi silogiqoajlodqg
hoijhb;ijqijlgioxi.xhaq,irl.qidjldiajxyhouitqrshtldhxoidjtx ujijhr
rshtlaeq,ilogidjhriblgqidjqirhujdixcijhbi orsqlylvekishdhlveq;injheq
rdhee,ihoijhrilblwhouiv ey,isxtda eehrifln,ilogixbohsxdqodidlhe,idjqtq
nlriqox ujidxilssleidjqirdx dqrdibloinjxirxishdhqgm

Rqqhouioxnidjldiv dili.qtkicqnibxbqodribxtqinx egiuh.qidjqiSqz xg’r
vxldridjqilg.lodluq,ilogitldjqtidjloivqidj ricxheqgixcijhriulbq,iGqthay
ajxrqidxijlwltginjldidxijhbib rdijl.qirqqbqgilibxrdi o r leekiexou
gltd,iqtqidjqielrdiajloaqinx egicxtiq.qtiqralsqm

V dioxirxxoqtighgijhrijltsxxoqqtirdlogi sicxtidjqirdtxyq,idjloilee
djtqqidhuqtr—Z qqz qu,iDlrjdqux,iGluuxx—hordhoadh.qekirstlouidxidjqht
cqqd,ilogirdloghouihoilighluxoleitxn,irhb edloqx rekisxhodqgidjqht
vltvr;ilogigltdqgix.qtidjqijqlgixcidjqiUqtbloijltsxxoqqt,idjqhtidjtqq
Olod ayqdihtxoriqodqtqgidjqinjleqmiVehoghoui.lsxtrixcicxlbilog
njhdq-chtq!iDjqidjtqqivxldr,ihoidjqichtrdic tkixcidjqinjleq’rijqlgexou
t rj,iv bsqgidjqiUqtblo’rilrhgqinhdjir ajicxtaq,idjldivxdjiGqthayilog
jhrivlcceqgijltsxxoqqtinqtqirsheeqgix d,ilogirlheqgix.qtivkidjqidjtqq
cekhouiyqqerm

“Gxo’divqilctlhg,ibkiv ddqt-vxpqr,”iathqgiRd vv,ialrdhouilislrrhou
ueloaqi sxoidjqbilrijqirjxdivk;i“kq’eeivqishayqgi sistqrqodek—lee
thujd—Hirlnirxbqirjltyrilrdqto—RdmiVqtoltg’rigxur,ikx iyoxn—tqehq.q
ghrdtqrrqgidtl.qeeqtrmiJ ttlj!idjhrihridjqinlkidxirlheioxnmiQ.qtkiyqqe
lir ovqlb!iJ ttlj!—Jqtqinqiuxiehyqidjtqqidhoiyqddeqrildidjqidlheixcil
blgiax ult!iDjhris dribqihoibhogixciclrdqohouidxiloiqeqsjlodihoil
dhev tkixoiliselho—blyqridjqinjqqe-rsxyqricek,ivxkr,injqoikx iclrdqoidx
jhbidjldinlk;ilogidjqtq’riglouqtixcivqhouishdajqgix didxx,injqoikx 
rdthyqilijheemiJ ttlj!idjhrihridjqinlkilicqeexnicqqerinjqoijq’riuxhou
dxiGl.kiFxoqr—leeilit rjigxnoiloiqogeqrrihoaehoqgiseloq!iJ ttlj!idjhr
njleqialtthqridjqiq.qtelrdhouiblhe!”

V didjqibxordqt’rit oinlrilivthqcixoqmiUh.houilir ggqoiulrs,ijq
d b ed x rekirx ogqgmiNhdjiliutldhouit rj,idjqidjtqqiehoqriceqnitx og
djqiexuuqtjqlgrinhdjir ajilicxtaqilridxiux uqigqqsiutxx.qrihoidjqb;
njheqirxicqltc einqtqidjqijltsxxoqqtridjldidjhritlshgirx oghouinx eg
rxxoiqpjl rdidjqiehoqr,idjldi rhouileeidjqhtigqpdqtx ribhujd,idjqk
al ujditqsqldqgirbxyhouid torinhdjidjqitxsqidxijxegixo;idheeild
elrd—xnhouidxidjqisqtsqogha eltirdtlhoictxbidjqieqlg-ehoqgiajxayrixc
djqivxldr,injqoaqidjqidjtqqitxsqrinqodirdtlhujdigxnoihodxidjqive q—djq
u onleqrixcidjqivxnrinqtqilebxrdiq.qoinhdjidjqinldqt,injheqidjqidjtqq
rdqtoridhedqgijhujihoidjqilhtmiLogidjqinjleqirxxoiaqlrhouidxirx og,icxt
rxbqidhbqidjqkitqblhoqgihoidjldilddhd gq,icqltc eixciqpsqoghouibxtq
ehoq,idjx ujidjqisxrhdhxoinlriliehddeqidhayehrjmiV didjx ujivxldrijl.q
vqqoidlyqoigxnoilogiexrdihoidjhrinlk,ikqdihdihridjhri“jxeghouixo,”ilr
hdihrialeeqg;idjhrijxxyhoui sivkidjqirjltsivltvrixcijhrieh.qiceqrjictxb
djqivlay;idjhrihdihridjldixcdqoidxtbqodridjqiEq.hldjloihodxirxxoithrhou
lulhoidxibqqdidjqirjltsieloaqixcijhricxqrmiKqdioxdidxirsqlyixcidjq
sqtheixcidjqidjhou,ihdihridxivqigx vdqginjqdjqtidjhriax trqihrilenlkr
djqivqrd;icxtihdihriv ditqlrxolveqidxistqr bq,idjldidjqiexouqtidjq
rdthayqoinjleqirdlkri ogqtinldqt,idjqibxtqijqihriqpjl rdqgmiVqal rq,
xnhouidxidjqiqoxtbx rir tclaqixcijhb—hoilic eeiutxnoirsqtbinjleq
rxbqdjhouieqrridjloi2000irz ltqicqqd—djqistqrr tqixcidjqinldqtihr
hbbqorqmiNqileeiyoxninjldiloilrdxohrjhouildbxrsjqthainqhujdinq
x trqe.qrirdlogi si ogqt;iq.qoijqtq,ilvx.q-utx og,ihoidjqilht;ijxn
.lrd,idjqo,idjqiv tgqoixcilinjleq,ivqlthouixoijhrivlayiliaxe boixcidnx
j ogtqgicldjxbrixcixaqlo!iHdib rdildieqlrdiqz leidjqinqhujdixcichcdk
ldbxrsjqtqrmiXoqinjleqbloijlriqrdhbldqgihdildidjqinqhujdixcidnqodk
ehoq-xc-vlddeqirjhsr,inhdjileeidjqhtiu or,ilogirdxtqr,ilogibqoixo
vxltgm

Lridjqidjtqqivxldrielkidjqtqixoidjldiuqodekitxeehouirql,iulwhouigxno
hodxihdriqdqtoleive qioxxo;ilogilrioxdilirhoueqiutxloixtiatkixcilok
rxtd,iolk,ioxdirxib ajilrilithsseqixtiliv vveqialbqi sictxbihdrigqsdjr;
njldielogrbloinx egijl.qidjx ujd,idjldivqoqldjileeidjldirheqoaqilog
selahghdk,idjqi dbxrdibxordqtixcidjqirqlrinlrinthdjhouilogintqoajhouiho
luxok!iOxdiqhujdihoajqrixcisqtsqogha eltitxsqinqtqi.hrhveqildidjqivxnrm
Rqqbrihdiatqghveqidjldivkidjtqqir ajidjhoidjtqlgridjqiutqldiEq.hldjlo
nlrir rsqogqgiehyqidjqivhuinqhujdidxiloiqhujdiglkiaexaymiR rsqogqg?ilog
dxinjld?iDxidjtqqivhdrixcivxltgmiHridjhridjqiatqld tqixcinjxbihdinlr
xoaqirxidth bsjlodekirlhg—“Alordidjx icheeijhriryhoinhdjivltvqgihtxor?
xtijhrijqlginhdjichrj-rsqltr?iDjqirnxtgixcijhbidjldielkqdjildijhb
alooxdijxeg,idjqirsqlt,idjqigltd,ioxtidjqijlvqtuqxo:ijqiqrdqqbqdjihtxo
lrirdtln;idjqilttxnialooxdiblyqijhbiceqq;igltdriltqiax odqgilrird vveq;
jqiel ujqdjildidjqirjlyhouixcilirsqlt!”iDjhridjqiatqld tq?idjhrijq?iXj!
djldi oc echebqodrirjx egicxeexnidjqistxsjqdrmiCxtinhdjidjqirdtqoudjixc
lidjx rlogidjhujrihoijhridlhe,iEq.hldjloijlgit oijhrijqlgi ogqtidjq
bx odlhorixcidjqirql,idxijhgqijhbictxbidjqiSqz xg’richrj-rsqltr!

Hoidjldirexshouilcdqtoxxoir oehujd,idjqirjlgxnridjldidjqidjtqqivxldr
rqodigxnoivqoqldjidjqir tclaq,ib rdijl.qivqqoiexouiqox ujilogivtxlg
qox ujidxirjlgqijleciPqtpqr’iltbkmiNjxialoidqeeijxnilssleehouidxidjq
nx ogqginjleqib rdijl.qivqqoir ajij uqisjlodxbricehddhouix.qtijhrijqlg!

“Rdlogivk,ibqo;ijqirdhtr,”iathqgiRdltv ay,ilridjqidjtqqiehoqrir ggqoek
.hvtldqgihoidjqinldqt,ighrdhoadekiaxog adhoui snltgridxidjqb,ilrivk
bluoqdhainhtqr,idjqiehcqilogigqldjidjtxvrixcidjqinjleq,irxidjldiq.qtk
xltrbloicqedidjqbihoijhrirqldmiDjqioqpdibxbqod,itqehq.qgihoiutqldisltd
ctxbidjqigxnonltgirdtlhoildidjqivxnr,idjqivxldriul.qilir ggqoivx oaq
 snltgr,ilrilirbleeihaqchqeginhee,injqoiligqorqijqtgixcinjhdqivqltriltq
raltqgictxbihdihodxidjqirqlm

“Jl eiho!iJl eiho!”iathqgiRdltv ayilulho;i“jq’rithrhoum”

Djqiehoqr,ixcinjhaj,ijltgekiloihordlodivqcxtq,ioxdixoqijlog’rivtqlgdj
ax egijl.qivqqoiulhoqg,inqtqioxnihoiexouiz hayiaxherice ouivlayilee
gthsshouihodxidjqivxldr,ilogirxxoidjqinjleqivtxyqinldqtinhdjhoidnx
rjhs’rieqoudjrixcidjqij odqtrm

Jhribxdhxoriselhoekigqoxdqgijhriqpdtqbqiqpjl rdhxomiHoibxrdielog
lohbleridjqtqiltqiaqtdlhoi.le.qrixticexxg-uldqrihoiblokixcidjqhti.qhor,
njqtqvkinjqoinx ogqg,idjqivexxgihrihoirxbqigqutqqildieqlrdihordlodek
rj dixccihoiaqtdlhoightqadhxormiOxdirxinhdjidjqinjleq;ixoqixcinjxrq
sqa ehlthdhqrihdihridxijl.qiloiqodhtqioxo-.le. eltirdt ad tqixcidjq
vexxg-.qrrqer,irxidjldinjqoishqtaqgiq.qoivkirxirbleeilisxhodilril
jltsxxo,iligqlgekigtlhoihrildixoaqivqu oi sxoijhrinjxeqiltdqthle
rkrdqb;iloginjqoidjhrihrijqhujdqoqgivkidjqiqpdtlxtgholtkistqrr tqixc
nldqtildiliutqldighrdloaqivqexnidjqir tclaq,ijhriehcqiblkivqirlhgidx
sx tictxbijhbihoihoaqrrlodirdtqlbrmiKqdirxi.lrdihridjqiz lodhdkixc
vexxgihoijhb,ilogirxighrdlodilogio bqtx rihdrihodqthxticx odlhor,idjld
jqinheeiyqqsidj riveqqghouilogiveqqghouicxtiliaxorhgqtlveqisqthxg;iq.qo
lrihoiligtx ujdilith.qtinheeicexn,injxrqirx taqihrihoidjqinqee-rsthour
xciclt-xccilogi oghraqtohveqijheermiQ.qoioxn,injqoidjqivxldris eeqg
 sxoidjhrinjleq,ilogisqthex rekigtqnix.qtijhrirnlkhouice yqr,ilogidjq
eloaqrinqtqigltdqgihodxijhb,idjqkinqtqicxeexnqgivkirdqlgkifqdrictxbidjq
oqniblgqinx og,injhajiyqsdiaxodho leekiselkhou,injheqidjqiold tle
rsx d-jxeqihoijhrijqlginlrixoekildihodqt.ler,ijxnq.qtitlshg,irqoghou
hdrilccthujdqgibxhrd tqihodxidjqilhtmiCtxbidjhrielrdi.qodioxivexxgikqd
albq,ivqal rqioxi.hdleisltdixcijhbijlgidj ricltivqqoirdt aymiJhriehcq,
lridjqkirhuohchalodekialeeihd,inlri odx ajqgm

Lridjqivxldrioxnibxtqiaexrqekir ttx ogqgijhb,idjqinjxeqi ssqtisltdixc
jhricxtb,inhdjib ajixcihdidjldihrixtgholthekir vbqtuqg,inlriselhoek
tq.qleqgmiJhriqkqr,ixtitldjqtidjqiselaqrinjqtqijhriqkqrijlgivqqo,inqtq
vqjqegmiLrirdtlouqibhrutxnoiblrrqriuldjqtihoidjqiyoxd-jxeqrixcidjq
oxveqrdixlyrinjqoistxrdtldq,irxictxbidjqisxhodrinjhajidjqinjleq’riqkqr
jlgixoaqixaa shqg,ioxnistxdt gqgivehogiv evr,ijxtthvekishdhlveqidxirqqm
V dishdkidjqtqinlrioxoqmiCxtileeijhrixegiluq,ilogijhrixoqiltb,ilogijhr
vehogiqkqr,ijqib rdighqidjqigqldjilogivqib tgqtqg,ihoixtgqtidxiehujd
djqiulkivthglerilogixdjqtibqttk-blyhourixcibqo,ilogilerxidxihee bholdq
djqirxeqboiaj tajqridjldistqlaji oaxoghdhxoleihoxccqorh.qoqrrivkileeidx
leemiRdheeitxeehouihoijhrivexxg,ildielrdijqisltdhleekighraexrqgil
rdtlouqekighraxex tqgiv oajixtistxd vqtloaq,idjqirhwqixciliv rjqe,iexn
gxnoixoidjqiceloym

“Liohaqirsxd,”iathqgiCelry;i“f rdieqdibqisthayijhbidjqtqixoaqm”

“L.lrd!”iathqgiRdltv ay,i“djqtq’rioxioqqgixcidjld!”

V dij bloqiRdltv ayinlridxxieldqmiLdidjqihordlodixcidjqigltdilo
 eaqtx rifqdirjxdictxbidjhriat qeinx og,ilogiuxlgqgivkihdihodxibxtq
djloir ccqtlveqilou hrj,idjqinjleqioxnirsx dhouidjhayivexxg,inhdjirnhcd
c tkivehogekigltdqgildidjqiatlcd,ivqrslddqthouidjqbilogidjqhtiuextkhou
atqnrileeix.qtinhdjirjxnqtrixciuxtq,ialsrhwhouiCelry’rivxldilogibltthou
djqivxnrmiHdinlrijhrigqldjirdtxyqmiCxt,ivkidjhridhbq,irxirsqodinlrijq
vkiexrrixcivexxg,idjldijqijqeseqrrekitxeeqgilnlkictxbidjqintqayijqijlg
blgq;ielkislodhouixoijhrirhgq,ihbsxdqodekicelssqginhdjijhrird bsqgicho,
djqoix.qtilogix.qtirexnekitq.xe.qgiehyqilinlohouinxteg;id toqgi sidjq
njhdqirqatqdrixcijhrivqeek;ielkiehyqiliexu,ilogighqgmiHdinlribxrd
shdqx r,idjldielrdiqpshthouirsx dmiLrinjqoivki orqqoijlogridjqinldqtihr
utlg leekigtlnoixccictxbirxbqibhujdkicx odlho,iloginhdjijlec-rdhceqg
bqeloajxekiu tuehouridjqirstlk-axe boiexnqtrilogiexnqtridxidjq
utx og—rxidjqielrdiexouigkhouirsx dixcidjqinjleqm

Rxxo,injheqidjqiatqnrinqtqilnlhdhouidjqiltth.leixcidjqirjhs,idjqivxgk
rjxnqgirkbsdxbrixcirhoyhouinhdjileeihdridtqlr tqri othceqgm
Hbbqghldqek,ivkiRdltv ay’rixtgqtr,iehoqrinqtqirqa tqgidxihdild
ghccqtqodisxhodr,irxidjldiqtqiexouiq.qtkivxldinlriliv xk;idjqir oyqo
njleqivqhouir rsqogqgilicqnihoajqrivqoqldjidjqbivkidjqiaxtgrmiVki.qtk
jqqgc eibloluqbqod,injqoidjqirjhsigtqniohuj,idjqinjleqinlridtlorcqttqg
dxijqtirhgq,iloginlrirdtxouekirqa tqgidjqtqivkidjqirdhccqrd
ce yq-ajlhor,icxtihdinlriselhoidjldi oeqrriltdhchahleeki sjqeg,idjq
vxgkinx egildixoaqirhoyidxidjqivxddxbm

Hdirxiajloaqgidjldilebxrdi sxoichtrdia ddhouihodxijhbinhdjidjqirslgq,
djqiqodhtqieqoudjixciliaxttxgqgijltsxxoinlricx ogihbvqggqgihoijhr
ceqrj,ixoidjqiexnqtisltdixcidjqiv oajivqcxtqigqrathvqgmiV dilridjq
rd bsrixcijltsxxoriltqictqz qodekicx ogihoidjqigqlgivxghqrixcialsd tqg
njleqr,inhdjidjqiceqrjisqtcqadekijqleqgiltx ogidjqb,ilogioxistxbhoqoaq
xcilokiyhogidxigqoxdqidjqhtiselaq;idjqtqcxtq,idjqtqib rdioqqgrijl.q
vqqoirxbqixdjqti oyoxnoitqlrxoihoidjqistqrqodialrqic eekidxilaax odicxt
djqi eaqtldhxoilee gqgidxmiV dirdheeibxtqia thx rinlridjqicladixcil
eloaq-jqlgixcirdxoqivqhouicx ogihoijhb,ioxdicltictxbidjqiv thqgihtxo,
djqiceqrjisqtcqadekichtbilvx dihdmiNjxijlgigltdqgidjldirdxoqieloaq?iLog
njqo?iHdibhujdijl.qivqqoigltdqgivkirxbqiOxt’iNqrdiHoghloiexouivqcxtq
Lbqthalinlrighrax.qtqgm

Njldixdjqtiblt.qeribhujdijl.qivqqoit bbluqgix dixcidjhribxordtx r
alvhoqdidjqtqihrioxidqeehoumiV dilir ggqoirdxsinlris didxic tdjqt
ghrax.qthqr,ivkidjqirjhs’rivqhoui ostqaqgqodqgekigtluuqgix.qtirhgqnlkr
dxidjqirql,ixnhouidxidjqivxgk’rihbbqorqekihoatqlrhouidqogqoakidxirhoym
Jxnq.qt,iRdltv ay,injxijlgidjqixtgqthouixcilcclhtr,ij ouixoidxihdidx
djqielrd;ij ouixoidxihdirxitqrxe dqek,ihogqqg,idjldinjqoildieqoudjidjq
rjhsinx egijl.qivqqoialsrhwqg,ihcirdheeisqtrhrdhouihoiexayhouiltbrinhdj
djqivxgk;idjqo,injqoidjqiaxbbloginlriuh.qoidxivtqlyiaeqltictxbihd,ir aj
nlridjqihbbx.lveqirdtlhoi sxoidjqidhbvqt-jqlgridxinjhajidjq
ce yq-ajlhorilogialveqrinqtqiclrdqoqg,idjldihdinlrihbsxrrhveqidxialrd
djqbixccmiBqlodhbqiq.qtkdjhouihoidjqiSqz xginlrilrelodmiDxiatxrridxidjq
xdjqtirhgqixcidjqigqayinlriehyqinleyhoui sidjqirdqqsiulveqgitxxcixcil
jx rqmiDjqirjhsiutxloqgilogiulrsqgmiBlokixcidjqih.xtkihoelkhourixcijqt
v enltyrilogialvhorinqtqirdltdqgictxbidjqhtiselaqr,ivkidjqi oold tle
ghrexaldhxomiHoi.lhoijlogrshyqrilogiatxnrinqtqivtx ujdidxivqlti sxoidjq
hbbx.lveqice yq-ajlhor,idxistkidjqbilgthcdictxbidjqidhbvqtjqlgr;ilogirx
exnijlgidjqinjleqioxnirqddeqgidjldidjqir vbqtuqgiqogriax egioxdivqild
leeilsstxlajqg,injheqiq.qtkibxbqodinjxeqidxorixcisxogqtxrhdkirqqbqg
lggqgidxidjqirhoyhouiv ey,ilogidjqirjhsirqqbqgixoidjqisxhodixciuxhou
x.qtm

“Jxegixo,ijxegixo,inxo’dikq?”iathqgiRd vvidxidjqivxgk,i“gxo’divqiho
r ajiligq.heixcilij ttkidxirhoy!iVkidj ogqt,ibqo,inqib rdigxirxbqdjhou
xtiuxicxtihdmiOxi rqistkhouidjqtq;il.lrd,iHirlkinhdjikx tijlogrshyqr,
logit oixoqixcikqicxtilistlkqtivxxyilogilisqo-yohcq,ilogia didjqivhu
ajlhorm”

“Yohcq?iLkq,ilkq,”iathqgiZ qqz qu,ilogirqhwhouidjqialtsqodqt’rijql.k
jldajqd,ijqieqloqgix dixcilisxtdjxeq,ilogirdqqeidxihtxo,ivquloirelrjhou
ldidjqieltuqrdice yq-ajlhormiV dilicqnirdtxyqr,ic eeixcirsltyr,inqtq
uh.qo,injqoidjqiqpaqqghouirdtlhoiqccqadqgidjqitqrdmiNhdjilidqtthcha
rols,iq.qtkiclrdqohouinqodilgthcd;idjqirjhsithujdqg,idjqialtalrqirloym

Oxn,idjhrixaalrhxoleihoq.hdlveqirhoyhouixcidjqitqaqodekiyheeqgiRsqtb
Njleqihrili.qtkia thx ridjhou;ioxtijlrilokichrjqtbloikqdilgqz ldqek
laax odqgicxtihdmi r leekidjqigqlgiRsqtbiNjleqicexldrinhdjiutqld
v xkloak,inhdjihdrirhgqixtivqeekiaxorhgqtlvekiqeq.ldqgilvx.qidjq
r tclaqmiHcidjqixoekinjleqridjldidj rirloyinqtqixeg,ibqlutq,ilog
vtxyqo-jqltdqgiatqld tqr,idjqhtislgrixcieltgighbhohrjqgilogileeidjqht
vxoqrijql.kilogitjq bldha;idjqoikx ibhujdinhdjirxbqitqlrxoilrrqtdidjld
djhrirhoyhouihrial rqgivkiloi oaxbbxoirsqahchaiutl.hdkihoidjqichrjirx
rhoyhou,iaxorqz qodi sxoidjhrilvrqoaqixciv xklodiblddqtihoijhbmiV dihd
hrioxdirxmiCxtikx ouinjleqr,ihoidjqijhujqrdijqledj,ilogirnqeehouinhdj
oxveqilrshtldhxor,istqbld tqekia dixccihoidjqinltbice rjilogiBlkixc
ehcq,inhdjileeidjqhtislodhouieltgilvx didjqb;iq.qoidjqrqivtlnok,
v xklodijqtxqrigxirxbqdhbqrirhoym

Vqihdirlhg,ijxnq.qt,idjldidjqiRsqtbiNjleqihricltieqrriehlveqidxidjhr
laahgqodidjloilokixdjqtirsqahqrmiNjqtqixoqixcidjldirxtdiuxigxno,idnqodk
ThujdiNjleqrigxmiDjhrighccqtqoaqihoidjqirsqahqrihrioxigx vdihbs dlveq
hoioxirbleeigqutqqidxidjqiutqldqtiz lodhdkixcivxoqihoidjqiThujdiNjleq;
jhri.qoqdhloivehogrilexoqirxbqdhbqrinqhujhouibxtqidjloilidxo;ictxbidjhr
hoa bvtloaqidjqiRsqtbiNjleqihrinjxeekictqqmiV didjqtqiltqihordloaqr
njqtq,ilcdqtidjqielsrqixciblokijx trixtirq.qtleiglkr,idjqir oyqoinjleq
lulhoithrqr,ibxtqiv xklodidjloihoiehcqmiV didjqitqlrxoixcidjhrihr
xv.hx rmiUlrqriltqiuqoqtldqgihoijhb;ijqirnqeeridxilistxghuhx r
bluohd gq;ivqaxbqrilirxtdixcilohbleivleexxomiLiehoq-xc-vlddeqirjhs
ax egijltgekiyqqsijhbi ogqtidjqomiHoidjqiRjxtqiNjlehou,ixoirx oghour,
lbxouidjqiVlkrixciOqniWqlelog,injqoiliThujdiNjleqiuh.qridxyqoixc
rhoyhou,idjqkiclrdqoiv xkridxijhb,inhdjiseqodkixcitxsq;irxidjldinjqo
djqivxgkijlriuxoqigxno,idjqkiyoxninjqtqidxiexxyicxtihdinjqoihdirjlee
jl.qilraqogqgilulhom

Hdinlrioxdiexouilcdqtidjqirhoyhouixcidjqivxgkidjldiliatkinlrijqltgictxb
djqiSqz xg’riblrd-jqlgr,iloox oahouidjldidjqiF ouctl inlrilulho
exnqthouijqtivxldr;idjx ujidjqixoekirsx dihoirhujdinlridjldixcil
Cho-Vlay,ivqexouhouidxidjqirsqahqrixci oalsd tlveqinjleqr,ivqal rqixc
hdrihoatqghveqisxnqtixcirnhbbhoumiOq.qtdjqeqrr,idjqiCho-Vlay’rirsx dihr
rxirhbheltidxidjqiRsqtbiNjleq’r,idjldivki oryhec eichrjqtbqoihdihr
xcdqoibhrdlyqoicxtihdmiLogiaxorqz qodekiGqthayilogileeijhrijxrdinqtq
oxnihoi.lehlodiajlrqixcidjhri ooqltlveqivt dqmiDjqi.htuhoiatxnghouilee
rlhe,iblgqilcdqtijqticx tikx ouiyqqer,ilogidj ridjqkileeighrlssqltqg
cltidxieqqnltg,irdheeihoivxeg,ijxsqc eiajlrqm

Xj!iblokiltqidjqiCho-Vlayr,ilogiblokiltqidjqiGqthayr,ibkicthqogm


AJLSDQTi82miDjqiJxoxtilogiUextkixciNjlehoum

Djqtqiltqirxbqiqodqtsthrqrihoinjhajilialtqc eighrxtgqtehoqrrihridjq
dt qibqdjxgm

DjqibxtqiHigh.qihodxidjhriblddqtixcinjlehou,ilogis rjibkitqrqltajqri s
dxidjqi.qtkirsthou-jqlgixcihdirxib ajidjqibxtqilbiHihbstqrrqginhdjihdr
utqldijxoxtlveqoqrrilogilodhz hdk;ilogiqrsqahleekinjqoiHichogirxiblok
utqldigqbh-uxgrilogijqtxqr,istxsjqdrixcileeirxtdr,injxixoqinlkixtixdjqt
jl.qirjqgighrdhoadhxoi sxoihd,iHilbidtlorsxtdqginhdjidjqitqceqadhxo
djldiHibkrqecivqexou,idjx ujiv dir vxtgholdqek,idxirxiqbvelwxoqgil
ctldqtohdkm

DjqiuleelodiSqtrq r,ilirxoixciF shdqt,inlridjqichtrdinjleqblo;ilogidx
djqiqdqtoleijxoxtixcix tialeehouivqihdirlhg,idjldidjqichtrdinjleq
lddlayqgivkix tivtxdjqtjxxginlrioxdiyheeqginhdjilokirxtghgihodqodm
Djxrqinqtqidjqiyohujdekiglkrixcix tistxcqrrhxo,injqoinqixoekivxtqiltbr
dxir aaxtidjqighrdtqrrqg,ilogioxdidxicheeibqo’rielbs-cqqgqtrmiQ.qtkixoq
yoxnridjqichoqirdxtkixciSqtrq rilogiLogtxbqgl;ijxnidjqiex.qek
Logtxbqgl,idjqigl ujdqtixciliyhou,inlridhqgidxilitxayixoidjqirql-axlrd,
logilriEq.hldjloinlrihoidjqi.qtkiladixcialttkhouijqtixcc,iSqtrq r,idjq
sthoaqixcinjleqbqo,ihodtqshgekilg.loahou,ijltsxxoqgidjqibxordqt,ilog
gqeh.qtqgilogibltthqgidjqiblhgmiHdinlriloilgbhtlveqiltdhrdhaiqpsexhd,
tltqekilajhq.qgivkidjqivqrdijltsxxoqqtrixcidjqistqrqodiglk;iholrb ajilr
djhriEq.hldjloinlrirelhoildidjqi.qtkichtrdigltdmiLogieqdioxibloigx vd
djhriLtyhdqirdxtk;icxtihoidjqiloahqodiFxssl,ioxniFlccl,ixoidjqiRkthlo
axlrd,ihoixoqixcidjqiSluloidqbseqr,idjqtqirdxxgicxtiblokiluqridjqi.lrd
ryqeqdxoixcilinjleq,injhajidjqiahdk’riequqogrilogileeidjqihojlvhdlodr
lrrqtdqgidxivqidjqihgqodhaleivxoqrixcidjqibxordqtidjldiSqtrq rireqnm
NjqoidjqiTxbloridxxyiFxssl,idjqirlbqiryqeqdxoinlrialtthqgidxiHdlekiho
dth bsjmiNjldirqqbribxrdirhou eltilogir uuqrdh.qekihbsxtdlodihoidjhr
rdxtk,ihridjhr:ihdinlrictxbiFxsslidjldiFxoljirqdirlhem

Lyhoidxidjqilg.qod tqixciSqtrq rilogiLogtxbqgl—hogqqg,ivkirxbqir ssxrqg
dxivqihoghtqadekigqth.qgictxbihd—hridjldiclbx rirdxtkixciRdmiUqxtuqilog
djqiGtluxo;injhajigtluxoiHiblhodlhoidxijl.qivqqoilinjleq;icxtihoiblok
xegiajtxohaeqrinjleqrilogigtluxoriltqirdtlouqekif bveqgidxuqdjqt,ilog
xcdqoirdlogicxtiqlajixdjqtmi“Djx iltdilriliehxoixcidjqinldqtr,ilogilril
gtluxoixcidjqirql,”irlhdjiQwqyhqe;ijqtqvk,iselhoekibqlohouilinjleq;iho
dt dj,irxbqi.qtrhxorixcidjqiVhveqi rqidjldinxtgihdrqecmiVqrhgqr,ihd
nx egib ajir vdtladictxbidjqiuextkixcidjqiqpsexhdijlgiRdmiUqxtuqiv d
qoax odqtqgiliatlnehouitqsdheqixcidjqielog,ihordqlgixcigxhouivlddeq
nhdjidjqiutqldibxordqtixcidjqigqqsmiLokibloiblkiyheeilirolyq,iv dixoek
liSqtrq r,iliRdmiUqxtuq,iliAxccho,ijl.qidjqijqltdihoidjqbidxibltaj
vxegeki sidxilinjleqm

Eqdioxdidjqibxgqtoislhodhourixcidjhriraqoqibhreqlgi r;icxtidjx ujidjq
atqld tqiqoax odqtqgivkidjldi.lehlodinjleqbloixcixegihri.lu qek
tqstqrqodqgixciliuthccho-ehyqirjlsq,ilogidjx ujidjqivlddeqihrigqshadqg
xoielogilogidjqirlhodixoijxtrqvlay,ikqdiaxorhgqthouidjqiutqldihuoxtloaq
xcidjxrqidhbqr,injqoidjqidt qicxtbixcidjqinjleqinlri oyoxnoidxiltdhrdr;
logiaxorhgqthouidjldilrihoiSqtrq r’ialrq,iRdmiUqxtuq’rinjleqibhujdijl.q
atlneqgi six dixcidjqirqlixoidjqivqlaj;ilogiaxorhgqthouidjldidjqilohble
thggqoivkiRdmiUqxtuqibhujdijl.qivqqoixoekilieltuqirqle,ixtirql-jxtrq;
vqlthouileeidjhrihoibhog,ihdinheeioxdilssqltiledxuqdjqtihoaxbsldhveq
nhdjidjqirlatqgiequqogilogidjqiloahqodqrdigtl ujdrixcidjqiraqoq,idx
jxegidjhrirx-aleeqgigtluxoioxixdjqtidjloidjqiutqldiEq.hldjloijhbrqecm
Hoiclad,iselaqgivqcxtqidjqirdthadilogishqtahouidt dj,idjhrinjxeqirdxtk
nheeicltqiehyqidjldichrj,iceqrj,ilogicxneihgxeixcidjqiSjhehrdhoqr,
Gluxoivkiolbq;injxivqhouiselodqgivqcxtqidjqiltyixciHrtlqe,ijhrijxtrq’r
jqlgilogivxdjidjqislebrixcijhrijlogricqeeixccictxbijhb,ilogixoekidjq
rd bsixtichrjkisltdixcijhbitqblhoqgmiDj r,idjqo,ixoqixcix tixnoioxveq
rdlbs,iq.qoilinjleqblo,ihridjqid dqeltkiu ltghloixciQouelog;ilogivk
uxxgithujdr,inqijltsxxoqqtrixciOlod ayqdirjx egivqiqotxeeqgihoidjqibxrd
oxveqixtgqtixciRdmiUqxtuqmiLogidjqtqcxtq,ieqdioxdidjqiyohujdrixcidjld
jxoxtlveqiaxbsloki(oxoqixcinjxb,iHi.qod tqidxirlk,ijl.qiq.qtijlgidxigx
nhdjilinjleqiehyqidjqhtiutqldisldtxo),ieqdidjqbioq.qtiqkqiliOlod ayqdqt
nhdjighrglho,irhoaqiq.qoihoix tinxxeeqoictxayrilogidlttqgidtxnrqtrinq
ltqib ajivqddqtiqodhdeqgidxiRdmiUqxtuq’rigqaxtldhxoidjloidjqkm

NjqdjqtidxilgbhdiJqta eqrilbxoui rixtioxd,iaxoaqtohouidjhriHiexou
tqblhoqgig vhx r:icxtidjx ujilaaxtghouidxidjqiUtqqyibkdjxexuhqr,idjld
lodhz qiAtxayqddilogiYhdiAltrxo—djldivtlnokigxqtixcitqfxhahouiuxxg
gqqgr,inlrirnleexnqgigxnoilogidjtxnoi sivkilinjleq;irdhee,injqdjqtidjld
rdthadekiblyqrilinjleqbloixcijhb,idjldibhujdivqibxxdqgmiHdioxnjqtq
lssqltridjldijqiq.qtilad leekijltsxxoqgijhrichrj,i oeqrr,ihogqqg,ictxb
djqihorhgqmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,ijqiblkivqigqqbqgilirxtdixciho.xe odltk
njleqblo;ildilokitldqidjqinjleqial ujdijhb,ihcijqighgioxdidjqinjleqmiH
aelhbijhbicxtixoqixcix tiaelom

V d,ivkidjqivqrdiaxodtlghadxtkil djxthdhqr,idjhriUtqahloirdxtkixc
Jqta eqrilogidjqinjleqihriaxorhgqtqgidxivqigqth.qgictxbidjqirdheeibxtq
loahqodiJqvtqnirdxtkixciFxoljilogidjqinjleq;ilogi.haqi.qtrâ;iaqtdlhoek
djqkiltqi.qtkirhbheltmiHciHiaelhbidjqigqbh-uxgidjqo,injkioxdidjq
stxsjqd?

Oxtigxijqtxqr,irlhodr,igqbhuxgr,ilogistxsjqdrilexoqiaxbsthrqidjqinjxeq
txeeixcix tixtgqtmiX tiutlogiblrdqtihrirdheeidxivqiolbqg;icxtiehyq
txkleiyhourixcixegidhbqr,inqichogidjqijqlginldqtrixcix tictldqtohdkiho
oxdjhouirjxtdixcidjqiutqldiuxgridjqbrqe.qrmiDjldinxogtx rixthqodle
rdxtkihrioxnidxivqitqjqltrqgictxbidjqiRjlrdqt,injhajiuh.qri ridjqigtqlg
.hrjoxx,ixoqixcidjqidjtqqisqtrxorihoidjqiuxgjqlgixcidjqiJhogxxr;iuh.qr
 ridjhrigh.hoqi.hrjoxxijhbrqecicxtix tiExtg;—.hrjoxx,injx,ivkidjqichtrd
xcijhridqoiqltdjekihoaltoldhxor,ijlricxtiq.qtirqdilsltdilogirloadhchqg
djqinjleqmiNjqoiVtljbl,ixtidjqiUxgixciUxgr,irlhdjidjqiRjlrdqt,itqrxe.qg
dxitqatqldqidjqinxtegilcdqtixoqixcihdrisqthxghaleighrrxe dhxor,ijqiul.q
vhtdjidxi.hrjoxx,idxistqrhgqix.qtidjqinxty;iv didjqi.qglr,ixtibkrdhale
vxxyr,injxrqisqt rleinx egirqqbidxijl.qivqqoihoghrsqorlveqidxi.hrjoxx
vqcxtqivquhoohouidjqiatqldhxo,iloginjhajidjqtqcxtqib rdijl.qiaxodlhoqg
rxbqdjhouihoidjqirjlsqixcistladhaleijhodridxikx ouiltajhdqadr,idjqrq
.qglrinqtqiekhouildidjqivxddxbixcidjqinldqtr;irxi.hrjoxxivqalbq
hoaltoldqihoilinjleq,ilogirx oghouigxnoihoijhbidxidjqi ddqtbxrdigqsdjr,
tqra qgidjqirlatqgi.xe bqrmiNlrioxdidjhri.hrjoxxilinjleqblo,idjqo?iq.qo
lrilibloinjxithgqrilijxtrqihrialeeqgilijxtrqblo?

Sqtrq r,iRdmiUqxtuq,iJqta eqr,iFxolj,ilogi.hrjoxx!idjqtq’ril
bqbvqt-txeeicxtikx !iNjldiae viv didjqinjleqblo’rialoijqlgixcciehyq
djld?


AJLSDQTi83miFxoljiJhrdxthaleekiTqultgqgm

TqcqtqoaqinlriblgqidxidjqijhrdxthaleirdxtkixciFxoljilogidjqinjleqiho
djqistqaqghouiajlsdqtmiOxnirxbqiOlod ayqdqtritldjqtighrdt rdidjhr
jhrdxthaleirdxtkixciFxoljilogidjqinjleqmiV didjqoidjqtqinqtqirxbq
raqsdhaleiUtqqyrilogiTxblor,injx,irdloghouix dictxbidjqixtdjxgxpislulor
xcidjqhtidhbqr,iqz leekigx vdqgidjqirdxtkixciJqta eqrilogidjqinjleq,
logiLthxoilogidjqigxesjho;ilogikqdidjqhtigx vdhouidjxrqidtlghdhxorighg
oxdiblyqidjxrqidtlghdhxorixoqinjhdidjqieqrricladr,icxtileeidjldm

XoqixegiRlu-Jltvxtinjleqblo’riajhqcitqlrxoicxtiz qrdhxohouidjqiJqvtqn
rdxtkinlridjhr:—Jqijlgixoqixcidjxrqiz lhodixeg-clrjhxoqgiVhveqr,
qbvqeehrjqginhdjia thx r,i orahqodhchaiseldqr;ixoqixcinjhajitqstqrqodqg
Fxolj’rinjleqinhdjidnxirsx drihoijhrijqlg—lisqa ehlthdkixoekidt qinhdj
tqrsqadidxilirsqahqrixcidjqiEq.hldjloi(djqiThujdiNjleq,ilogidjq
.lthqdhqrixcidjldixtgqt),iaxoaqtohouinjhajidjqichrjqtbqoijl.qidjhr
rlkhou,i“Lisqookitxeeinx egiajxyqijhb”;ijhrirnleexnihrirxi.qtkirbleem
V d,idxidjhr,iVhrjxsiFqvv’rilodhahsldh.qilornqtihritqlgkmiHdihrioxd
oqaqrrltk,ijhodridjqiVhrjxs,idjldinqiaxorhgqtiFxoljilridxbvqgihoidjq
njleq’rivqeek,iv dilridqbsxtlthekiexguqgihoirxbqisltdixcijhribx djmiLog
djhrirqqbritqlrxolveqiqox ujihoidjqiuxxgiVhrjxsmiCxtidt ek,idjqiThujd
Njleq’ribx djinx egilaaxbbxgldqiliax seqixcinjhrd-dlveqr,ilog
axbcxtdlvekirqldileeidjqiselkqtrmiSxrrhvek,idxx,iFxoljibhujdijl.q
qoraxoaqgijhbrqecihoilijxeexnidxxdj;iv d,ixoirqaxogidjx ujdr,idjqiThujd
Njleqihridxxdjeqrrm

LoxdjqtitqlrxoinjhajiRlu-Jltvxti(jqinqodivkidjldiolbq)i tuqgicxtijhr
nlodixciclhdjihoidjhriblddqtixcidjqistxsjqd,inlrirxbqdjhouixvra tqekiho
tqcqtqoaqidxijhrihoaltaqtldqgivxgkilogidjqinjleq’riulrdthaif haqrmiV d
djhrixvfqadhxoiehyqnhrqicleeridxidjqiutx og,ivqal rqiliUqtbloiqpquqdhrd
r ssxrqridjldiFxoljib rdijl.qidlyqoitqc uqihoidjqicexldhouivxgkixcil
_gqlg_injleq—q.qoilridjqiCtqoajirxeghqtrihoidjqiT rrhloialbslhuoid toqg
djqhtigqlgijxtrqrihodxidqodr,ilogiatlneqgihodxidjqbmiVqrhgqr,ihdijlr
vqqoigh.hoqgivkixdjqtiaxodhoqodleiaxbbqodldxtr,idjldinjqoiFxoljinlr
djtxnoix.qtvxltgictxbidjqiFxsslirjhs,ijqirdtlhujdnlkiqccqadqgijhr
qralsqidxiloxdjqti.qrrqeioqltivk,irxbqi.qrrqeinhdjilinjleqicxtil
chu tq-jqlg;ilog,iHinx egilgg,isxrrhvekialeeqgi“DjqiNjleq,”ilrirxbq
atlcdiltqioxnlglkriajthrdqoqgidjqi“Rjlty,”idjqi“U ee,”idjqi“Qlueqm”iOxt
jl.qidjqtqivqqoinlodhouieqltoqgiqpquqdhrdrinjxijl.qixshoqgidjldidjq
njleqibqodhxoqgihoidjqivxxyixciFxoljibqtqekibqlodiliehcq-stqrqt.qt—lo
hoceldqgivluixcinhog—njhajidjqiqoglouqtqgistxsjqdirnlbidx,ilogirxinlr
rl.qgictxbilinldqtkigxxbmiSxxtiRlu-Jltvxt,idjqtqcxtq,irqqbrinxtrdqgilee
tx ogmiV dijqijlgirdheeiloxdjqtitqlrxoicxtijhrinlodixciclhdjmiHdinlr
djhr,ihciHitqbqbvqtithujd:iFxoljinlrirnleexnqgivkidjqinjleqihoidjq
BqghdqttloqloiRql,ilogilcdqtidjtqqiglkrijqinlri.xbhdqgi sirxbqnjqtq
nhdjhoidjtqqiglkr’ifx toqkixciOhoq.qj,iliahdkixoidjqiDhuthr,i.qtkib aj
bxtqidjloidjtqqiglkr’ifx toqkilatxrrictxbidjqioqltqrdisxhodixcidjq
BqghdqttloqloiaxlrdmiJxnihridjld?

V dinlridjqtqioxixdjqtinlkicxtidjqinjleqidxielogidjqistxsjqdinhdjho
djldirjxtdighrdloaqixciOhoq.qj?iKqrmiJqibhujdijl.qialtthqgijhbitx ogivk
djqinlkixcidjqiAlsqixciUxxgiJxsqmiV dioxdidxirsqlyixcidjqislrrluq
djtx ujidjqinjxeqieqoudjixcidjqiBqghdqttloqlo,ilogiloxdjqtislrrluqi s
djqiSqtrhloiU ecilogiTqgiRql,ir ajilir ssxrhdhxoinx egiho.xe.qidjq
axbseqdqiahta bol.huldhxoixcileeiLcthalihoidjtqqiglkr,ioxdidxirsqlyixc
djqiDhuthrinldqtr,ioqltidjqirhdqixciOhoq.qj,ivqhouidxxirjleexnicxtilok
njleqidxirnhbihomiVqrhgqr,idjhrihgqlixciFxolj’rinqldjqthouidjqiAlsqixc
UxxgiJxsqildirxiqltekiliglkinx egintqrdidjqijxoxtixcidjqighrax.qtkixc
djldiutqldijqlgelogictxbiVltdjxexbqniGhlw,ihdritqs dqgighrax.qtqt,ilog
rxiblyqibxgqtoijhrdxtkiliehltm

V dileeidjqrqicxxehrjiltu bqodrixcixegiRlu-Jltvxtixoekiq.hoaqgijhr
cxxehrjisthgqixcitqlrxo—lidjhouirdheeibxtqitqstqjqorhveqihoijhb,irqqhou
djldijqijlgiv diehddeqieqltohouiqpaqsdinjldijqijlgishayqgi sictxbidjq
r oilogidjqirqlmiHirlkihdixoekirjxnrijhricxxehrj,ihbshx risthgq,ilog
lvxbholveq,igq.hehrjitqvqeehxoilulhordidjqitq.qtqogiaeqtukmiCxtivkil
Sxtd u qrqiAldjxehaisthqrd,idjhri.qtkihgqlixciFxolj’riuxhouidxiOhoq.qj
.hlidjqiAlsqixciUxxgiJxsqinlrilg.loaqgilrilirhuoleibluohchaldhxoixcidjq
uqoqtleibhtlaeqmiLogirxihdinlrmiVqrhgqr,idxidjhriglk,idjqijhujek
qoehujdqoqgiD tyrigq.x dekivqehq.qihoidjqijhrdxthaleirdxtkixciFxoljm
Logirxbqidjtqqiaqod thqrilux,iloiQouehrjidtl.qeeqtihoixegiJltthr’r
.xkluqr,irsqlyrixciliD tyhrjiBxrz qiv hedihoijxoxtixciFxolj,ihoinjhaj
Bxrz qinlrilibhtla ex rielbsidjldiv todinhdjx dilokixhem


AJLSDQTi84miShdajsxehoum

Dxiblyqidjqbit oiqlrhekilogirnhcdek,idjqilpeqrixcialtthluqriltq
loxhodqg;ilogicxtib ajidjqirlbqis tsxrq,irxbqinjleqtrisqtcxtbilo
lolexux rixsqtldhxoi sxoidjqhtivxld;idjqkiutqlrqidjqivxddxbmiOxtihrihd
dxivqigx vdqgidjldilrir ajilistxaqg tqialoigxioxijltb,ihdiblkisxrrhvek
vqixcioxiaxodqbsdhveqilg.lodluq;iaxorhgqthouidjldixheiloginldqtiltq
jxrdheq;idjldixheihrilirehghouidjhou,ilogidjldidjqixvfqadihoi.hqnihridx
blyqidjqivxldirehgqivtl.qekmiZ qqz quivqehq.qgirdtxouekihoiloxhodhou
jhrivxld,ilogixoqibxtohouioxdiexouilcdqtidjqiUqtbloirjhsiF ouctl 
ghrlssqltqg,idxxyibxtqidjloia rdxbltkislhorihoidjldixaa sldhxo;
atlnehoui ogqtihdrivxddxb,injqtqihdij ouix.qtidjqirhgq,ilogit vvhouiho
djqi oad x roqrrilridjx ujighehuqodekirqqyhouidxihor tqiliatxsixcijlht
ctxbidjqiatlcd’rivlegiyqqemiJqirqqbqgidxivqinxtyhouihoixvqghqoaqidx
rxbqisltdha eltistqrqodhbqodmiOxtighgihditqblhoi onlttlodqgivkidjq
q.qodm

Dxnltgrioxxoinjleqrinqtqitlhrqg;iv dirxirxxoilridjqirjhsirlheqgigxnoidx
djqb,idjqkid toqgilogiceqginhdjirnhcdistqahshdloak;ilighrxtgqtqg
cehujd,ilrixciAeqxsldtl’rivltuqrictxbiLadh bm

Oq.qtdjqeqrr,idjqivxldris tr qg,ilogiRd vv’rinlricxtqbxrdmiVkiutqld
qpqtdhxo,iDlrjdquxildielrdir aaqqgqgihoiselodhouixoqihtxo;iv didjq
rdthayqoinjleq,inhdjx dildileeirx oghou,irdheeiaxodho qgijhrijxthwxodle
cehujd,inhdjilggqgiceqqdoqrrmiR aji ohodqtbhddqgirdtlhohouri sxoidjq
selodqgihtxoib rdirxxoqtixtieldqtihoq.hdlvekiqpdtladihdmiHdivqalbq
hbsqtldh.qidxieloaqidjqicekhouinjleq,ixtivqiaxodqodidxiexrqijhbmiV didx
jl eidjqivxldi sidxijhriceloyinlrihbsxrrhveq,ijqirnlbirxiclrdilog
c thx rmiNjldidjqoitqblhoqg?

Xcileeidjqinxogtx rigq.haqrilogigqpdqthdhqr,idjqireqhujdrixcijlogilog
ax odeqrrir vdeqdhqr,idxinjhajidjqi.qdqtloinjleqbloihrirxixcdqoicxtaqg,
oxoqiqpaqqgidjldichoqibloœ .tqinhdjidjqieloaqialeeqgishdajsxehoumiRblee
rnxtg,ixtivtxlgirnxtg,ihoileeihdriqpqtahrqrivxlrdrioxdjhouiehyqihdmiHd
hrixoekihoghrsqorlveqinhdjiloiho.qdqtldqit oohouinjleq;ihdriutlogiclad
logicqld tqihridjqinxogqtc eighrdloaqidxinjhajidjqiexouieloaqihr
laa tldqekigltdqgictxbili.hxeqodekitxayhou,ifqtyhouivxld,i ogqtiqpdtqbq
jqlgnlkmiRdqqeiloginxxgihoae gqg,idjqiqodhtqirsqltihrirxbqidqoixt
dnqe.qicqqdihoieqoudj;idjqirdlccihrib ajirehujdqtidjloidjldixcidjq
jltsxxo,ilogilerxixciliehujdqtibldqthle—shoqmiHdihric tohrjqginhdjil
rbleeitxsqialeeqgilinlts,ixciaxorhgqtlveqieqoudj,ivkinjhajihdialoivq
jl eqgivlayidxidjqijlogilcdqtigltdhoum

V divqcxtqiuxhouic tdjqt,ihdihrihbsxtdlodidxibqodhxoijqtq,idjldidjx uj
djqijltsxxoiblkivqishdajsxeqgihoidjqirlbqinlkinhdjidjqieloaq,ikqdihdihr
rqegxbigxoq;iloginjqoigxoq,ihrirdheeieqrrictqz qodekir aaqrrc e,ixo
laax odixcidjqiutqldqtinqhujdilogihocqthxtieqoudjixcidjqijltsxxoilr
axbsltqginhdjidjqieloaq,injhajihoiqccqadivqaxbqirqthx rigtlnvlayrmiLril
uqoqtleidjhou,idjqtqcxtq,ikx ib rdichtrdiuqdiclrdidxilinjleq,ivqcxtq
lokishdajsxehouiaxbqrihodxiselkm

ExxyioxnildiRd vv;ilibloinjxictxbijhrij bxtx r,igqehvqtldqiaxxeoqrrilog
qz lohbhdkihoidjqightqrdiqbqtuqoahqr,inlrirsqahleekiz lehchqgidxiqpaqe
hoishdajsxehoumiExxyildijhb;ijqirdlogri sthujdihoidjqidxrrqgivxnixcidjq
cekhouivxld;intlsdihoiceqqakicxlb,idjqidxnhouinjleqihricxtdkicqqd
ljqlgmiJlogehouidjqiexouieloaqiehujdek,iueloahouidnhaqixtidjthaqilexou
hdrieqoudjidxirqqihcihdivqiqpladekirdtlhujd,iRd vvinjhrdehouekiuldjqtr
 sidjqiaxheixcidjqinltsihoixoqijlog,irxilridxirqa tqihdrictqqiqogiho
jhriutlrs,ieql.houidjqitqrdi oxvrdt adqgmiDjqoijxeghouidjqieloaqic ee
vqcxtqijhrinlhrdvlog’ribhggeq,ijqieq.qerihdildidjqinjleq;injqo,
ax.qthouijhbinhdjihd,ijqirdqlghekigqstqrrqridjqiv dd-qogihoijhrijlog,
djqtqvkiqeq.ldhouidjqisxhodidheeidjqinqlsxoirdlogriclhtekivleloaqgi sxo
jhrisleb,ichcdqqoicqqdihoidjqilhtmiJqibhogrikx irxbqnjldixcilif uueqt,
vleloahouiliexouirdlccixoijhriajhomiOqpdibxbqodinhdjilitlshg,iolbqeqrr
hbs erq,ihoilir sqtviexcdkiltajidjqivthujdirdqqeirsloridjqicxlbhou
ghrdloaq,ilogiz h.qtrihoidjqiehcqirsxdixcidjqinjleqmiHordqlgixc
rsltyehouinldqt,ijqioxnirsx dritqgivexxgm

“Djldigtx.qidjqirshuxdix dixcijhb!”iathqgiRd vvmi“’DhriF ek’rihbbxtdle
Cx tdj;ileeicx odlhorib rdit oinhoqidxglk!iNx egioxn,ihdinqtqixeg
Xteqlorinjhryqk,ixtixegiXjhx,ixti orsqlylveqixegiBxoxouljqel!iDjqo,
Dlrjdqux,ielg,iH’gijl.qikqijxegilialolyhoidxidjqifqd,iloginq’gigthoy
tx ogihd!iKql,i.qthek,ijqltdrileh.q,inq’givtqniajxhaqis oajihoidjq
rstqlgixcijhrirsx d-jxeqidjqtq,ilogictxbidjldieh.qis oaj-vxneiz lccidjq
eh.houird ccm”

Lulhoilogilulhoidxir ajiulbqrxbqidley,idjqigqpdqtx rigltdihritqsqldqg,
djqirsqltitqd tohouidxihdriblrdqtiehyqiliutqkjx ogijqegihoiryhec e
eqlrjmiDjqiluxohwqginjleqiuxqrihodxijhrice ttk;idjqidxn-ehoqihr
relayqoqg,ilogidjqishdajsxeqtigtxsshouilrdqto,icxegrijhrijlogr,ilog
b dqekinldajqridjqibxordqtighqm


AJLSDQTi85miDjqiCx odlhom

Djldicxtirhpidjx rlogikqltr—logioxixoqiyoxnrijxniblokibheehxorixciluqr
vqcxtq—djqiutqldinjleqrirjx egijl.qivqqoirsx dhouileeix.qtidjqirql,ilog
rsthoyehouilogibhrdhckhouidjqiultgqorixcidjqigqqs,ilrinhdjirxiblok
rsthoyehouixtibhrdhckhouisxdr;ilogidjldicxtirxbqiaqod thqrivlay,
djx rlogrixcij odqtrirjx egijl.qivqqoiaexrqivkidjqicx odlhoixcidjq
njleq,inldajhouidjqrqirsthoyehourilogirsx dhour—djldileeidjhrirjx eg
vq,ilogikqd,idjldigxnoidxidjhriveqrrqgibho dqi(chcdqqoilogiliz ltdqt
bho dqrislrdixoqix’aexayiSmBmixcidjhrirhpdqqodjiglkixciGqaqbvqt,iLmGm
1851),ihdirjx egirdheeitqblhoilistxveqb,injqdjqtidjqrqirsx dhouriltq,
lcdqtilee,itqleekinldqt,ixtioxdjhouiv di.lsxt—djhrihrir tqekil
oxdqnxtdjkidjhoum

Eqdi r,idjqo,iexxyildidjhriblddqt,ilexouinhdjirxbqihodqtqrdhouihdqbr
axodhouqodmiQ.qtkixoqiyoxnridjldivkidjqisqa ehltia oohouixcidjqht
uheer,idjqichookidthvqrihoiuqoqtleivtqldjqidjqilhtinjhajildileeidhbqr
hriaxbvhoqginhdjidjqiqeqbqodihoinjhajidjqkirnhb;ijqoaq,ilijqtthouixtil
axgibhujdieh.qiliaqod tk,ilogioq.qtixoaqitlhrqihdrijqlgilvx.qidjq
r tclaqmiV dixnhouidxijhribltyqgihodqtoleirdt ad tqinjhajiuh.qrijhb
tqu eltie our,iehyqilij bloivqhou’r,idjqinjleqialoixoekieh.qivk
hojlehouidjqighrqouluqgilhtihoidjqixsqoildbxrsjqtqmiNjqtqcxtqidjq
oqaqrrhdkicxtijhrisqthxghalei.hrhdridxidjqi ssqtinxtegmiV dijqialooxd
hoilokigqutqqivtqldjqidjtx ujijhribx dj,icxt,ihoijhrixtgholtkilddhd gq,
djqiRsqtbiNjleq’ribx djihriv thqgildieqlrdiqhujdicqqdivqoqldjidjq
r tclaq;iloginjldihrirdheeibxtq,ijhrinhogshsqijlrioxiaxooqphxoinhdjijhr
bx djmiOx,ijqivtqldjqridjtx ujijhrirshtlaeqilexoq;ilogidjhrihrixoidjq
dxsixcijhrijqlgm

HciHirlk,idjldihoilokiatqld tqivtqldjhouihrixoekilic oadhxo
hoghrsqorlveqidxi.hdlehdk,iholrb ajilrihdinhdjgtlnrictxbidjqilhtil
aqtdlhoiqeqbqod,injhajivqhouir vrqz qodekivtx ujdihodxiaxodladinhdjidjq
vexxgihbsltdridxidjqivexxgihdri.h.hckhouisthoahseq,iHigxioxdidjhoyiH
rjleeiqtt;idjx ujiHiblkisxrrhveki rqirxbqir sqtce x rirahqodhchainxtgrm
Lrr bqihd,ilogihdicxeexnridjldihcileeidjqivexxgihoilibloiax egivq
lqtldqginhdjixoqivtqldj,ijqibhujdidjqoirqlei sijhrioxrdtherilogioxd
cqdajiloxdjqticxtiliaxorhgqtlveqidhbqmiDjldihridxirlk,ijqinx egidjqo
eh.qinhdjx divtqldjhoumiLoxblex rilrihdiblkirqqb,idjhrihristqahrqekidjq
alrqinhdjidjqinjleq,injxirkrdqbldhaleekieh.qr,ivkihodqt.ler,ijhric ee
jx tilogibxtqi(njqoildidjqivxddxb)inhdjx digtlnhouilirhoueqivtqldj,ixt
rxib ajilrihoilokinlkihojlehouilisltdhaeqixcilht;icxt,itqbqbvqt,ijqijlr
oxiuheermiJxnihridjhr?iVqdnqqoijhrithvrilogixoiqlajirhgqixcijhrirshoq
jqihrir ssehqginhdjilitqbltylveqiho.xe.qgiAtqdloielvkthodjixc
.qtbhaqeeh-ehyqi.qrrqer,injhaji.qrrqer,injqoijqiz hdridjqir tclaq,iltq
axbseqdqekighrdqogqginhdjixpkuqoldqgivexxgmiRxidjldicxtiloijx tixt
bxtq,ilidjx rlogicldjxbrihoidjqirql,ijqialtthqrilir tse rirdxayixc
.hdlehdkihoijhb,if rdilridjqialbqeiatxrrhouidjqinldqteqrrigqrqtd
altthqrilir tse rir ssekixcigthoyicxtic d tqi rqihoihdricx t
r sseqbqodltkirdxblajrmiDjqiloldxbhaleicladixcidjhrielvkthodjihr
hoghrs dlveq;ilogidjldidjqir ssxrhdhxoicx ogqgi sxoihdihritqlrxolveq
logidt q,irqqbridjqibxtqiaxuqodidxibq,injqoiHiaxorhgqtidjqixdjqtnhrq
hoqpsehalveqixvrdholakixcidjldieq.hldjloihoi_jl.houijhrirsx dhourix d_,
lridjqichrjqtbqoisjtlrqihdmiDjhrihrinjldiHibqlomiHci obxeqrdqg,i sxo
thrhouidxidjqir tclaq,idjqiRsqtbiNjleqinheeiaxodho qidjqtqicxtilisqthxg
xcidhbqiqpladeki ohcxtbinhdjileeijhrixdjqti obxeqrdqgithrhourmiRlkijq
rdlkriqeq.qoibho dqr,ilogifqdrirq.qodkidhbqr,idjldihr,itqrshtqrirq.qodk
vtqldjr;idjqoinjqoq.qtijqithrqrilulho,ijqinheeivqir tqidxijl.qijhr
rq.qodkivtqldjrix.qtilulho,idxilibho dqmiOxn,ihcilcdqtijqicqdajqrilicqn
vtqldjrikx ileltbijhb,irxidjldijqirx ogr,ijqinheeivqilenlkrigxguhoui s
lulhoidxiblyqiuxxgijhritqu eltileexnloaqixcilhtmiLogioxdidheeidjxrq
rq.qodkivtqldjriltqidxeg,inheeijqicholeekiuxigxnoidxirdlkix dijhric ee
dqtbivqexnmiTqblty,ijxnq.qt,idjldihoighccqtqodihogh.hg leridjqrqitldqr
ltqighccqtqod;iv dihoilokixoqidjqkiltqilehyqmiOxn,injkirjx egidjqinjleq
dj rihorhrdi sxoijl.houijhrirsx dhourix d,i oeqrrihdivqidxitqseqohrj
jhritqrqt.xhtixcilht,iqtqigqraqoghouicxtiuxxg?iJxnixv.hx rihrihd,idxx,
djldidjhrioqaqrrhdkicxtidjqinjleq’rithrhouiqpsxrqrijhbidxileeidjqicldle
jlwltgrixcidjqiajlrqmiCxtioxdivkijxxyixtivkioqdiax egidjhri.lrd
eq.hldjloivqial ujd,injqoirlhehouilidjx rlogicldjxbrivqoqldjidjq
r oehujdmiOxdirxib ajidjkiryhee,idjqo,iXij odqt,ilridjqiutqld
oqaqrrhdhqridjldirdthyqidjqi.hadxtkidxidjqq!

Hoiblo,ivtqldjhouihrihoaqrrlodekiuxhouixo—xoqivtqldjixoekirqt.houicxt
dnxixtidjtqqis erldhxor;irxidjldinjldq.qtixdjqtiv rhoqrrijqijlridx
lddqogidx,inlyhouixtireqqshou,ivtqldjqijqib rd,ixtighqijqinheemiV didjq
RsqtbiNjleqixoekivtqldjqrilvx dixoqirq.qodjixtiR oglkixcijhridhbqm

Hdijlrivqqoirlhgidjldidjqinjleqixoekivtqldjqridjtx ujijhrirsx d-jxeq;
hcihdiax egidt djc eekivqilggqgidjldijhrirsx driltqibhpqginhdjinldqt,
djqoiHixshoqinqirjx egivqic tohrjqginhdjidjqitqlrxoinjkijhrirqorqixc
rbqeeirqqbrixvehdqtldqgihoijhb;icxtidjqixoekidjhouilvx dijhbidjldild
leeilornqtridxijhrioxrqihridjldihgqodhaleirsx d-jxeq;ilogivqhouirx
aexuuqginhdjidnxiqeqbqodr,ihdiax egioxdivqiqpsqadqgidxijl.qidjqisxnqt
xcirbqeehoumiV dixnhouidxidjqibkrdqtkixcidjqirsx d—njqdjqtihdivqinldqt
xtinjqdjqtihdivqi.lsxt—oxilvrxe dqiaqtdlhodkialoilrikqdivqiltth.qgild
xoidjhrijqlgmiR tqihdihr,ioq.qtdjqeqrr,idjldidjqiRsqtbiNjleqijlriox
stxsqtixecladxthqrmiV dinjldigxqrijqinlodixcidjqb?iOxitxrqr,iox
.hxeqdr,ioxiAxexuoq-nldqtihoidjqirqlm

C tdjqtbxtq,ilrijhrinhogshsqirxeqekixsqorihodxidjqid vqixcijhrirsx dhou
alole,ilogilridjldiexouialole—ehyqidjqiutlogiQthqiAlole—hric tohrjqg
nhdjilirxtdixciexayri(djldixsqoilogirj d)icxtidjqigxnonltgitqdqodhxoixc
lhtixtidjqi snltgiqpae rhxoixcinldqt,idjqtqcxtqidjqinjleqijlrioxi.xhaq;
 oeqrrikx ihor edijhbivkirlkhou,idjldinjqoijqirxirdtlouqekit bveqr,ijq
dleyridjtx ujijhrioxrqmiV didjqoilulho,injldijlridjqinjleqidxirlk?
Rqegxbijl.qiHiyoxnoilokistxcx ogivqhouidjldijlgilokdjhouidxirlkidxidjhr
nxteg,i oeqrricxtaqgidxirdlbbqtix dirxbqdjhouivkinlkixciuqddhouil
eh.houmiXj!ijlsskidjldidjqinxtegihrir ajiloiqpaqeeqodiehrdqoqt!

Oxn,idjqirsx dhouialoleixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,iajhqcekihodqogqgilrihdihr
cxtidjqiaxo.qkloaqixcilht,ilogicxtirq.qtleicqqdielhgilexou,
jxthwxodleek,if rdivqoqldjidjqi ssqtir tclaqixcijhrijqlg,ilogiliehddeq
dxixoqirhgq;idjhria thx rialoleihri.qtkib ajiehyqiliulr-shsqielhgigxno
hoiliahdkixoixoqirhgqixcilirdtqqdmiV didjqiz qrdhxoitqd torinjqdjqt
djhriulr-shsqihrilerxilinldqt-shsq;ihoixdjqtinxtgr,injqdjqtidjqirsx d
xcidjqiRsqtbiNjleqihridjqibqtqi.lsxtixcidjqiqpjleqgivtqldj,ixtinjqdjqt
djldiqpjleqgivtqldjihribhpqginhdjinldqtidlyqoihoildidjqibx dj,ilog
ghrajltuqgidjtx ujidjqirshtlaeqmiHdihriaqtdlhoidjldidjqibx dj
hoghtqadekiaxbb ohaldqrinhdjidjqirsx dhouialole;iv dihdialooxdivq
stx.qgidjldidjhrihricxtidjqis tsxrqixcighrajltuhouinldqtidjtx ujidjq
rshtlaeqmiVqal rqidjqiutqldqrdioqaqrrhdkicxtirxigxhouinx egirqqbidxivq,
njqoihoicqqghouijqilaahgqodleekidlyqrihoinldqtmiV didjqiRsqtbiNjleq’r
cxxgihricltivqoqldjidjqir tclaq,ilogidjqtqijqialooxdirsx diq.qoihcijq
nx egmiVqrhgqr,ihcikx itqultgijhbi.qtkiaexrqek,ilogidhbqijhbinhdjikx t
nldaj,ikx inheeichogidjldinjqoi obxeqrdqg,idjqtqihriloi ogq.hldhou
tjkbqivqdnqqoidjqisqthxgrixcijhrifqdrilogidjqixtgholtkisqthxgrixc
tqrshtldhxom

V dinjkisqrdqtixoqinhdjileeidjhritqlrxohouixoidjqir vfqad?iRsqlyix d!
Kx ijl.qirqqoijhbirsx d;idjqoigqaeltqinjldidjqirsx dihr;ialoikx ioxd
dqeeinldqtictxbilht?iBkigqltirht,ihoidjhrinxtegihdihrioxdirxiqlrkidx
rqddeqidjqrqiselhoidjhourmiHijl.qiq.qticx ogikx tiselhoidjhouridjq
yoxddhqrdixcileemiLogilricxtidjhrinjleqirsx d,ikx ibhujdilebxrdirdlog
hoihd,ilogikqdivqi ogqahgqgilridxinjldihdihristqahrqekm

Djqiaqodtleivxgkixcihdihrijhggqoihoidjqiroxnkirsltyehouibhrdiqo.qexshou
hd;ilogijxnialoikx iaqtdlhoekidqeeinjqdjqtilokinldqticleerictxbihd,
njqo,ilenlkr,injqoikx iltqiaexrqiqox ujidxilinjleqidxiuqdiliaexrqi.hqn
xcijhrirsx d,ijqihrihoilistxghuhx riaxbbxdhxo,idjqinldqtialralghouilee
ltx ogijhbmiLogihcildir ajidhbqrikx irjx egidjhoyidjldikx itqleek
sqtaqh.qgigtxsrixcibxhrd tqihoidjqirsx d,ijxnigxikx iyoxnidjldidjqkiltq
oxdibqtqekiaxogqorqgictxbihdri.lsxt;ixtijxnigxikx iyoxnidjldidjqkiltq
oxdidjxrqihgqodhaleigtxsrir sqtchahleekiexguqgihoidjqirsx d-jxeq
chrr tq,injhajihriax odqtr oyihodxidjqir bbhdixcidjqinjleq’rijqlg?iCxt
q.qoinjqoidtloz heekirnhbbhouidjtx ujidjqibhg-glkirqlihoilialeb,inhdj
jhriqeq.ldqgij bsir o-gthqgilriligtxbqgltk’rihoidjqigqrqtd;iq.qoidjqo,
djqinjleqilenlkrialtthqrilirbleeivlrhoixcinldqtixoijhrijqlg,ilri ogqtil
velwhouir oikx inheeirxbqdhbqrirqqilial.hdkihoilitxayicheeqgi sinhdj
tlhom

Oxtihrihdildileeist gqodicxtidjqij odqtidxivqix.qtia thx ridx ajhouidjq
stqahrqiold tqixcidjqinjleqirsx dmiHdinheeioxdigxicxtijhbidxivqisqqthou
hodxihd,ilogis ddhouijhriclaqihoihdmiKx ialooxdiuxinhdjikx tishdajqtidx
djhricx odlhoilogicheeihd,ilogivthouihdilnlkmiCxtiq.qoinjqoiaxbhouihodx
rehujdiaxodladinhdjidjqix dqt,i.lsxtkirjtqgrixcidjqifqd,injhajinhee
xcdqoijlssqo,ikx tiryhoinheeicq.qthrjekirbltd,ictxbidjqilathgoqrrixc
djqidjhouirxidx ajhouihdmiLogiHiyoxnixoq,injxiaxbhouihodxirdheeiaexrqt
axodladinhdjidjqirsx d,injqdjqtinhdjirxbqirahqodhchaixvfqadihoi.hqn,ixt
xdjqtnhrq,iHialooxdirlk,idjqiryhoisqqeqgixccictxbijhriajqqyilogiltbm
Njqtqcxtq,ilbxouinjleqbqo,idjqirsx dihrigqqbqgisxhrxox r;idjqkidtkidx
q.lgqihdmiLoxdjqtidjhou;iHijl.qijqltgihdirlhg,ilogiHigxioxdib ajigx vd
hd,idjldihcidjqifqdihriclhtekirsx dqgihodxikx tiqkqr,ihdinheeivehog
kx miDjqinhrqrdidjhouidjqiho.qrdhuldxtialoigxidjqo,ihdirqqbridxibq,ihr
dxieqdidjhrigqlgekirsx dilexoqm

Rdhee,inqialoijksxdjqrhwq,iq.qoihcinqialooxdistx.qilogiqrdlvehrjmiBk
jksxdjqrhrihridjhr:idjldidjqirsx dihrioxdjhouiv dibhrdmiLogivqrhgqr
xdjqtitqlrxor,idxidjhriaxoae rhxoiHilbihbsqeeqg,ivkiaxorhgqtldhxor
dx ajhouidjqiutqldihojqtqodighuohdkilogir vehbhdkixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq;iH
laax odijhbioxiaxbbxo,irjleexnivqhou,iholrb ajilrihdihriloi oghrs dqg
cladidjldijqihrioq.qticx ogixoirx oghour,ixtioqltirjxtqr;ileeixdjqt
njleqrirxbqdhbqriltqmiJqihrivxdjisxogqtx rilogistxcx ogmiLogiHilb
axo.hoaqgidjldictxbidjqijqlgrixcileeisxogqtx ristxcx ogivqhour,ir ajilr
Seldx,iSkttjx,idjqiGq.he,iF shdqt,iGlodq,ilogirxixo,idjqtqilenlkriuxqr
 siliaqtdlhoirqbh-.hrhveqirdqlb,injheqihoidjqiladixcidjhoyhouigqqs
djx ujdrmiNjheqiaxbsxrhouiliehddeqidtqldhrqixoiQdqtohdk,iHijlgidjq
a thxrhdkidxiselaqilibhttxtivqcxtqibq;ilogiqtqiexouirlnitqceqadqg
djqtq,ilia thx riho.xe.qginxtbhouilogi og eldhxoihoidjqildbxrsjqtqix.qt
bkijqlgmiDjqiho.lthlveqibxhrd tqixcibkijlht,injheqise ouqgihoigqqs
djx ujd,ilcdqtirhpia srixcijxdidqlihoibkidjhoirjhoueqgilddha,ixcilo
L u rdioxxo;idjhrirqqbriloilgghdhxoleiltu bqodicxtidjqilvx.q
r ssxrhdhxom

Logijxnioxvekihditlhrqrix tiaxoaqhdixcidjqibhujdk,ibhrdkibxordqt,idx
vqjxegijhbirxeqboekirlhehouidjtx ujilialebidtxshaleirql;ijhri.lrd,ibheg
jqlgix.qtj ouivkilialoxskixci.lsxt,iqouqogqtqgivkijhrihoaxbb ohalveq
axodqbseldhxor,ilogidjldi.lsxt—lrikx inheeirxbqdhbqrirqqihd—uexthchqg
vkilitlhovxn,ilrihciJql.qoihdrqecijlgis dihdrirqlei sxoijhridjx ujdrm
Cxt,ig’kqirqq,itlhovxnrigxioxdi.hrhdidjqiaeqltilht;idjqkixoekihttlghldq
.lsxtmiLogirx,idjtx ujileeidjqidjhayibhrdrixcidjqighbigx vdrihoibk
bhog,igh.hoqihod hdhxorioxnilogidjqoirjxxd,iqoyhogehouibkicxuinhdjil
jql.qoekitlkmiLogicxtidjhriHidjloyiUxg;icxtileeijl.qigx vdr;iblokigqok;
v digx vdrixtigqohler,icqnilexouinhdjidjqb,ijl.qihod hdhxormiGx vdrixc
leeidjhouriqltdjek,ilogihod hdhxorixcirxbqidjhourijql.qoek;idjhr
axbvholdhxoiblyqrioqhdjqtivqehq.qtioxtihochgqe,iv diblyqrilibloinjx
tqultgridjqbivxdjinhdjiqz leiqkqm


AJLSDQTi86miDjqiDlhem

Xdjqtisxqdrijl.qinltveqgidjqistlhrqrixcidjqirxcdiqkqixcidjqilodqexsq,
logidjqiex.qekise bluqixcidjqivhtgidjldioq.qtilehujdr;ieqrriaqeqrdhle,
Hiaqeqvtldqilidlhem

TqayxohouidjqieltuqrdirhwqgiRsqtbiNjleq’ridlheidxivquhoildidjldisxhod
xcidjqidt oyinjqtqihdidlsqtridxilvx didjqiuhtdjixciliblo,ihdiaxbsthrqr
 sxoihdri ssqtir tclaqilexoq,iloiltqlixcildieqlrdichcdkirz ltqicqqdm
Djqiaxbsladitx ogivxgkixcihdritxxdiqpslogrihodxidnxivtxlg,ichtb,iceld
slebrixtice yqr,iutlg leekirjxlehouilnlkidxieqrridjloiloihoajiho
djhayoqrrmiLdidjqiatxdajixtif oadhxo,idjqrqice yqrirehujdekix.qtels,
djqoirhgqnlkritqaqgqictxbiqlajixdjqtiehyqinhour,ieql.houilinhgqi.laloak
vqdnqqomiHoioxieh.houidjhouiltqidjqiehoqrixcivql dkibxtqiqpz hrhdqek
gqchoqgidjloihoidjqiatqraqodhaivxtgqtrixcidjqrqice yqrmiLdihdri dbxrd
qpslorhxoihoidjqic eeiutxnoinjleq,idjqidlheinheeiaxorhgqtlvekiqpaqqg
dnqodkicqqdilatxrrm

Djqiqodhtqibqbvqtirqqbriligqorqinqvvqgivqgixcinqegqgirhoqnr;iv dia d
hodxihd,ilogikx ichogidjldidjtqqighrdhoadirdtldliaxbsxrqihd:— ssqt,
bhggeq,ilogiexnqtmiDjqichvtqrihoidjqi ssqtilogiexnqtielkqtr,iltqiexou
logijxthwxodle;idjxrqixcidjqibhggeqixoq,i.qtkirjxtd,ilogit oohou
atxrrnhrqivqdnqqoidjqix drhgqielkqtrmiDjhridth oqirdt ad tq,ilrib ajilr
lokdjhouiqerq,ihbsltdrisxnqtidxidjqidlhemiDxidjqird gqodixcixegiTxblo
nleer,idjqibhggeqielkqtinheeic tohrjilia thx risltleeqeidxidjqidjho
ax trqixcidheqrilenlkriledqtoldhouinhdjidjqirdxoqihoidjxrqinxogqtc e
tqeharixcidjqilodhz q,iloginjhaji ogx vdqgekiaxodthv dqirxib ajidxidjq
utqldirdtqoudjixcidjqiblrxotkm

V dilrihcidjhri.lrdiexaleisxnqtihoidjqidqoghox ridlheinqtqioxdiqox uj,
djqinjxeqiv eyixcidjqieq.hldjloihriyohdix.qtinhdjilinltsiloginxxcixc
b ra eltichvtqrilogichelbqodr,injhajislrrhouixoiqhdjqtirhgqidjqiexhor
logit oohouigxnoihodxidjqice yqr,ihorqorhvekiveqoginhdjidjqb,ilog
eltuqekiaxodthv dqidxidjqhtibhujd;irxidjldihoidjqidlheidjqiaxoce qod
bqlr tqeqrricxtaqixcidjqinjxeqinjleqirqqbriaxoaqodtldqgidxilisxhodm
Ax egiloohjheldhxoixaa tidxiblddqt,idjhrinqtqidjqidjhouidxigxihdm

Oxtigxqridjhr—hdrilblwhouirdtqoudj,ildileeidqogidxiathsseqidjqiutlaqc e
ceqphxoixcihdribxdhxor;injqtqihoclodheqoqrrixciqlrqi og eldqridjtx ujil
DhdlohrbixcisxnqtmiXoidjqiaxodtltk,idjxrqibxdhxorigqth.qidjqhtibxrd
lssleehouivql dkictxbihdmiTqleirdtqoudjioq.qtihbslhtrivql dkixt
jltbxok,iv dihdixcdqoivqrdxnrihd;ilogihoiq.qtkdjhouihbsxrhouek
vql dhc e,irdtqoudjijlrib ajidxigxinhdjidjqibluhamiDlyqilnlkidjqidhqg
dqogxoridjldileeix.qtirqqbiv trdhouictxbidjqibltveqihoidjqialt.qg
Jqta eqr,ilogihdriajltbinx egivqiuxoqmiLrigq.x diQayqtbloiehcdqgidjq
ehoqoirjqqdictxbidjqiolyqgiaxtsrqixciUxqdjq,ijqinlrix.qtnjqebqginhdj
djqiblrrh.qiajqrdixcidjqiblo,idjldirqqbqgilriliTxbloidth bsjleiltajm
NjqoiLouqexislhodriq.qoiUxgidjqiCldjqtihoij bloicxtb,ibltyinjld
txv rdoqrrihridjqtqmiLoginjldq.qtidjqkiblkitq.qleixcidjqigh.hoqiex.qiho
djqiRxo,idjqirxcd,ia teqg,ijqtblsjtxghdhaleiHdlehloishad tqr,ihoinjhaj
jhrihgqlijlrivqqoibxrdir aaqrrc eekiqbvxghqg;idjqrqishad tqr,irx
gqrdhd dqilridjqkiltqixcileeivtlnohoqrr,ijhodioxdjhouixcilokisxnqt,iv d
djqibqtqioquldh.q,icqbhohoqixoqixcir vbhrrhxoilogiqog tloaq,injhajixo
leeijlogrihdihriaxoaqgqg,icxtbidjqisqa ehltistladhalei.htd qrixcijhr
dqlajhourm

R ajihridjqir vdeqiqelrdhahdkixcidjqixtuloiHidtqldixc,idjldinjqdjqt
nhqegqgihoirsxtd,ixtihoiqltoqrd,ixtihoilouqt,injldq.qtivqidjqibxxgihd
vqiho,ihdriceqphxoriltqiho.lthlvekibltyqgivkiqpaqqghouiutlaqmiDjqtqho
oxiclhtk’riltbialoidtloraqogihdm

Ch.qiutqldibxdhxoriltqisqa ehltidxihdmiChtrd,injqoi rqgilrilichoicxt
stxutqrrhxo;iRqaxog,injqoi rqgilriliblaqihoivlddeq;iDjhtg,ihoirnqqshou;
Cx tdj,ihoiexvdlhehou;iChcdj,ihoisqlyhouice yqrm

Chtrd:iVqhouijxthwxodleihoihdrisxrhdhxo,idjqiEq.hldjlo’ridlheiladrihoil
ghccqtqodiblooqtictxbidjqidlherixcileeixdjqtirqliatqld tqrmiHdioq.qt
nthuueqrmiHoibloixtichrj,inthuuehouihrilirhuoixcihocqthxthdkmiDxidjq
njleq,ijhridlheihridjqirxeqibqlorixcistxs erhxomiRatxee-nhrqiaxheqg
cxtnltgrivqoqldjidjqivxgk,ilogidjqoitlshgekirst ouivlaynltgr,ihdihr
djhrinjhajiuh.qridjldirhou eltigltdhou,ieqlshouibxdhxoidxidjqibxordqt
njqoic thx rekirnhbbhoumiJhrirhgq-chorixoekirqt.qidxirdqqtivkm

Rqaxog:iHdihriliehddeqirhuohchalod,idjldinjheqixoqirsqtbinjleqixoek
chujdriloxdjqtirsqtbinjleqinhdjijhrijqlgilogifln,ioq.qtdjqeqrr,ihoijhr
axocehadrinhdjiblo,ijqiajhqcekilogiaxodqbsd x reki rqrijhridlhemiHo
rdthyhouildilivxld,ijqirnhcdekia t.qrilnlkijhrice yqrictxbihd,ilogidjq
vexnihrixoekihocehadqgivkidjqitqaxhemiHcihdivqiblgqihoidjqi oxvrdt adqg
lht,iqrsqahleekihcihdigqraqogidxihdriblty,idjqirdtxyqihridjqoirhbsek
httqrhrdhveqmiOxithvrixcibloixtivxldialoinhdjrdlogihdmiKx tixoek
rle.ldhxoiehqrihoiqe ghouihd;iv dihcihdiaxbqrirhgqnlkridjtx ujidjq
xssxrhouinldqt,idjqoisltdekixnhouidxidjqiehujdiv xkloakixcidjq
njleq-vxld,ilogidjqiqelrdhahdkixcihdribldqthler,iliatlayqgithvixtil
glrjqgiseloyixtidnx,ilirxtdixcirdhdajihoidjqirhgq,ihriuqoqtleekidjq
bxrdirqthx ritqr edmiDjqrqir vbqtuqgirhgqivexnriltqirxixcdqoitqaqh.qg
hoidjqichrjqtk,idjldidjqkiltqilaax odqgibqtqiajheg’riselkmiRxbqixoq
rdthsrixccilictxay,ilogidjqijxeqihrirdxssqgm

Djhtg:iHialooxdigqbxordtldqihd,iv dihdirqqbridxibq,idjldihoidjqinjleq
djqirqorqixcidx ajihriaxoaqodtldqgihoidjqidlhe;icxtihoidjhritqrsqad
djqtqihriligqehalakihoihdixoekiqz leeqgivkidjqiglhodhoqrrixcidjq
qeqsjlod’ridt oymiDjhrigqehalakihriajhqcekiq.hoaqgihoidjqiladhxoixc
rnqqshou,injqoihoiblhgqoekiuqodeqoqrridjqinjleqinhdjiliaqtdlhoirxcd
rexnoqrribx.qrijhrihbbqorqice yqrictxbirhgqidxirhgqi sxoidjqir tclaqixc
djqirql;ilogihcijqicqqeiv dilirlhext’rinjhryqt,inxqidxidjldirlhext,
njhryqtrilogileemiNjldidqogqtoqrridjqtqihrihoidjldistqehbholtkidx aj!
Jlgidjhridlheilokistqjqorheqisxnqt,iHirjx egirdtlhujdnlkivqdjhoyibqixc
Gltbxoxgqr’iqeqsjlodidjldirxictqz qodqgidjqicexnqt-bltyqd,iloginhdjiexn
rle dldhxoristqrqodqgioxrqulkridxiglbrqer,ilogidjqoialtqrrqgidjqht
wxoqrmiXoibxtqilaax odridjloixoq,ilishdkihdihridjldidjqinjleqigxqrioxd
sxrrqrridjhristqjqorheqi.htd qihoijhridlhe;icxtiHijl.qijqltgixcikqd
loxdjqtiqeqsjlod,idjldinjqoinx ogqgihoidjqichujd,ia t.qgitx ogijhr
dt oyilogiqpdtladqgidjqigltdm

Cx tdj:iRdqlehoui olnltqri sxoidjqinjleqihoidjqicloahqgirqa thdkixcidjq
bhggeqixcirxehdltkirqlr,ikx ichogijhbi ovqodictxbidjqi.lrdiaxts eqoaq
xcijhrighuohdk,ilogiyhddqo-ehyq,ijqiselkrixoidjqixaqloilrihcihdinqtqil
jqltdjmiV dirdheeikx irqqijhrisxnqtihoijhriselkmiDjqivtxlgislebrixcijhr
dlheiltqicehtdqgijhujihodxidjqilht;idjqoirbhdhouidjqir tclaq,idjq
dj ogqtx riaxoa rrhxoitqrx ogricxtibheqrmiKx inx egilebxrdidjhoyil
utqldiu oijlgivqqoighrajltuqg;ilogihcikx ioxdhaqgidjqiehujdintqldjixc
.lsxtictxbidjqirshtlaeqildijhrixdjqtiqpdtqbhdk,ikx inx egidjhoyidjld
djldinlridjqirbxyqictxbidjqidx aj-jxeqm

Chcdj:iLrihoidjqixtgholtkicexldhouisxrd tqixcidjqieq.hldjloidjqice yqr
ehqiaxorhgqtlvekivqexnidjqieq.qeixcijhrivlay,idjqkiltqidjqoiaxbseqdqek
x dixcirhujdivqoqldjidjqir tclaq;iv dinjqoijqihrilvx didxise ouqihodx
djqigqqsr,ijhriqodhtqice yqrinhdjildieqlrdidjhtdkicqqdixcijhrivxgkiltq
dxrrqgiqtqadihoidjqilht,ilogirxitqblhoi.hvtldhouilibxbqod,idheeidjqk
gxnonltgrirjxxdix dixci.hqnmiQpaqsdhouidjqir vehbqi_vtqlaj_—rxbqnjqtq
qerqidxivqigqrathvqg—djhrisqlyhouixcidjqinjleq’rice yqrihrisqtjlsridjq
utlogqrdirhujdidxivqirqqoihoileeilohbldqgiold tqmiX dixcidjqivxddxbeqrr
stxc oghdhqridjqiuhulodhaidlheirqqbrirslrbxghaleekiroldajhouildidjq
jhujqrdijql.qomiRxihoigtqlbr,ijl.qiHirqqoiblfqrdhaiRldloidjt rdhou
cxtdjijhridxtbqodqgiaxexrrleiaelnictxbidjqicelbqiVledhaixciJqeemiV diho
ulwhouildir ajiraqoqr,ihdihrileeihoileeinjldibxxgikx iltqiho;ihcihoidjq
Glodqlo,idjqigq.herinheeixaa tidxikx ;ihcihoidjldixciHrlhlj,idjq
ltajlouqermiRdloghouildidjqiblrd-jqlgixcibkirjhsig thouilir othrqidjld
athbrxoqgirykilogirql,iHixoaqirlnilieltuqijqtgixcinjleqrihoidjqiqlrd,
leeijqlghouidxnltgridjqir o,ilogicxtilibxbqodi.hvtldhouihoiaxoaqtdinhdj
sqlyqgice yqrmiLrihdirqqbqgidxibqildidjqidhbq,ir ajiliutlogiqbvxghbqod
xcilgxtldhxoixcidjqiuxgrinlrioq.qtivqjqeg,iq.qoihoiSqtrhl,idjqijxbqixc
djqichtqinxtrjhssqtrmiLriSdxeqbkiSjhexsldqtidqrdhchqgixcidjqiLcthalo
qeqsjlod,iHidjqoidqrdhchqgixcidjqinjleq,istxox oahouijhbidjqibxrd
gq.x dixcileeivqhourmiCxtilaaxtghouidxiYhouiF vl,idjqibhehdltk
qeqsjlodrixcilodhz hdkixcdqoijlheqgidjqibxtohouinhdjidjqhtidt oyr
 sehcdqgihoidjqistxcx ogqrdirheqoaqm

Djqiajloaqiaxbslthrxoihoidjhriajlsdqt,ivqdnqqoidjqinjleqilogidjq
qeqsjlod,irxicltilrirxbqilrsqadrixcidjqidlheixcidjqixoqilogidjqidt oy
xcidjqixdjqtiltqiaxoaqtoqg,irjx egioxdidqogidxiselaqidjxrqidnxixssxrhdq
xtulorixoiloiqz lehdk,ib ajieqrridjqiatqld tqridxinjhajidjqk
tqrsqadh.qekivqexoumiCxtilridjqibhujdhqrdiqeqsjlodihriv dilidqtthqtidx
Eq.hldjlo,irx,iaxbsltqginhdjiEq.hldjlo’ridlhe,ijhridt oyihriv didjq
rdleyixciliehekmiDjqibxrdightqc eivexnictxbidjqiqeqsjlod’ridt oyinqtq
lridjqiselkc eidlsixciliclo,iaxbsltqginhdjidjqibqlr tqeqrriat rjilog
atlrjixcidjqirsqtbinjleq’risxogqtx rice yqr,injhajihoitqsqldqg
hordloaqrijl.qixoqilcdqtidjqixdjqtij teqgiqodhtqivxldrinhdjileeidjqht
xltrilogiatqnrihodxidjqilht,i.qtkib ajilriloiHoghloif uueqtidxrrqrijhr
vleerm*

*Djx ujileeiaxbslthrxoihoidjqinlkixciuqoqtleiv eyivqdnqqoidjqinjleqilog
djqiqeqsjlodihristqsxrdqtx r,iholrb ajilrihoidjldisltdha eltidjq
qeqsjlodirdlogrihoib ajidjqirlbqitqrsqadidxidjqinjleqidjldiligxuigxqr
dxidjqiqeqsjlod;ioq.qtdjqeqrr,idjqtqiltqioxdinlodhouirxbqisxhodrixc
a thx rirhbhehd gq;ilbxouidjqrqihridjqirsx dmiHdihrinqeeiyoxnoidjldidjq
qeqsjlodinheeixcdqoigtlni sinldqtixtig rdihoijhridt oy,ilogidjqo
qeq.ldhouihd,ifqdihdicxtdjihoilirdtqlbm

DjqibxtqiHiaxorhgqtidjhribhujdkidlhe,idjqibxtqigxiHigqsextqibk
holvhehdkidxiqpstqrrihdmiLdidhbqridjqtqiltqiuqrd tqrihoihd,injhaj,
djx ujidjqkinx eginqeeiutlaqidjqijlogixciblo,itqblhoinjxeek
hoqpsehalveqmiHoiloiqpdqorh.qijqtg,irxitqbltylveq,ixaalrhxoleek,iltq
djqrqibkrdhaiuqrd tqr,idjldiHijl.qijqltgij odqtrinjxijl.qigqaeltqgidjqb
lyhoidxiCtqq-Blrxoirhuorilogirkbvxer;idjldidjqinjleq,ihogqqg,ivkidjqrq
bqdjxgrihodqeehuqodekiaxo.qtrqginhdjidjqinxtegmiOxtiltqidjqtqinlodhou
xdjqtibxdhxorixcidjqinjleqihoijhriuqoqtleivxgk,ic eeixcirdtlouqoqrr,
logi olaax odlveqidxijhribxrdiqpsqthqoaqgilrrlhelodmiGhrrqadijhbijxniH
blk,idjqo,iHiv diuxiryhoigqqs;iHiyoxnijhbioxd,ilogioq.qtinheemiV dihciH
yoxnioxdiq.qoidjqidlheixcidjhrinjleq,ijxni ogqtrdlogijhrijqlg?ib aj
bxtq,ijxniaxbstqjqogijhriclaq,injqoiclaqijqijlrioxoq?iDjx irjledirqqibk
vlayisltdr,ibkidlhe,ijqirqqbridxirlk,iv dibkiclaqirjleeioxdivqirqqom
V diHialooxdiaxbseqdqekiblyqix dijhrivlayisltdr;ilogijhodinjldijqinhee
lvx dijhriclaq,iHirlkilulhoijqijlrioxiclaqm


AJLSDQTi87miDjqiUtlogiLtblglm

Djqiexouilogiolttxnisqohor elixciBlelaal,iqpdqoghouirx dj-qlrdnltgictxb
djqidqtthdxthqrixciVhtblj,icxtbridjqibxrdirx djqtekisxhodixcileeiLrhlm
Hoiliaxodho x riehoqictxbidjldisqohor elirdtqdajidjqiexouihrelogrixc
R bldtl,iFl.l,iVleek,ilogiDhbxt;injhaj,inhdjiblokixdjqtr,icxtbili.lrd
bxeq,ixtitlbsltd,ieqoudjnhrqiaxooqadhouiLrhlinhdjiL rdtlehl,ilog
gh.hghouidjqiexoui ovtxyqoiHoghloixaqloictxbidjqidjhayekird ggqg
xthqodleiltajhsqeluxqrmiDjhritlbsltdihrishqtaqgivkirq.qtleirleek-sxtdr
cxtidjqiaxo.qohqoaqixcirjhsriloginjleqr;iaxorsha x rilbxouinjhajiltq
djqirdtlhdrixciR oglilogiBlelaalmiVkidjqirdtlhdrixciR ogl,iajhqcek,
.qrrqerivx ogidxiAjholictxbidjqinqrd,iqbqtuqihodxidjqiAjholirqlrm

DjxrqiolttxnirdtlhdrixciR ogligh.hgqiR bldtlictxbiFl.l;ilogirdloghou
bhgnlkihoidjldi.lrditlbsltdixcihrelogr,iv ddtqrrqgivkidjldivxegiutqqo
stxbxodxtk,iyoxnoidxirqlbqoilriFl.liJqlg;idjqkioxdiliehddeqiaxttqrsxog
dxidjqiaqodtleiuldqnlkixsqohouihodxirxbqi.lrdinleeqgiqbshtq:ilog
axorhgqthouidjqihoqpjl rdhveqinqledjixcirshaqr,ilogirheyr,ilogifqnqer,
logiuxeg,ilogih.xtk,inhdjinjhajidjqidjx rlogihrelogrixcidjldixthqodle
rqliltqiqothajqg,ihdirqqbrilirhuohchalodistx.hrhxoixciold tq,idjldir aj
dtqlr tqr,ivkidjqi.qtkicxtbldhxoixcidjqielog,irjx egildieqlrdivqltidjq
lssqltloaq,ijxnq.qtihoqccqad le,ixcivqhouiu ltgqgictxbidjqilee-utlrshou
nqrdqtoinxtegmiDjqirjxtqrixcidjqiRdtlhdrixciR ogliltqi or ssehqginhdj
djxrqigxbhoqqthouicxtdtqrrqrinjhajiu ltgidjqiqodtloaqridxidjq
Bqghdqttloqlo,idjqiVledha,ilogidjqiStxsxodhrmi oehyqidjqiGloqr,idjqrq
Xthqodlerigxioxdigqblogidjqixvrqz hx rijxbluqixciexnqtqgidxs-rlherictxb
djqiqogeqrristxaqrrhxoixcirjhsrivqcxtqidjqinhog,injhajicxtiaqod thqr
slrd,ivkiohujdilogivkiglk,ijl.qislrrqgivqdnqqoidjqihrelogrixciR bldtl
logiFl.l,ictqhujdqginhdjidjqiaxrdehqrdialtuxqrixcidjqiqlrdmiV dinjheq
djqkictqqekinlh.qiliaqtqbxohleiehyqidjhr,idjqkigxivkioxibqloritqox oaq
djqhtiaelhbidxibxtqirxehgidthv dqm

Dhbqix dixcibhogidjqishtldhaleistxlrixcidjqiBlelkr,ie tyhouilbxouidjq
exnirjlgqgiax.qrilogihreqdrixciR bldtl,ijl.qirleehqgix di sxoidjq
.qrrqerirlhehouidjtx ujidjqirdtlhdr,ichqtaqekigqbloghouidthv dqildidjq
sxhodixcidjqhtirsqltrmiDjx ujivkidjqitqsqldqgivexxgkiajlrdhrqbqodridjqk
jl.qitqaqh.qgildidjqijlogrixciQ txsqloiat hrqtr,idjqil glahdkixcidjqrq
axtrlhtrijlrixcieldqivqqoirxbqnjlditqstqrrqg;ikqd,iq.qoildidjqistqrqod
glk,inqixaalrhxoleekijqltixciQouehrjilogiLbqthaloi.qrrqer,injhaj,iho
djxrqinldqtr,ijl.qivqqoitqbxtrqeqrrekivxltgqgilogisheeluqgm

Nhdjiliclht,ictqrjinhog,idjqiSqz xginlrioxnigtlnhouiohujidxidjqrq
rdtlhdr;iLjlvis tsxrhouidxislrridjtx ujidjqbihodxidjqiFl.loirql,ilog
djqoaq,iat hrhouioxtdjnltgr,ix.qtinldqtriyoxnoidxivqictqz qodqgijqtq
logidjqtqivkidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,irnqqsihorjxtqivkidjqiSjhehsshoqiHrelogr,
logiulhoidjqicltiaxlrdixciFlslo,ihoidhbqicxtidjqiutqldinjlehouirqlrxo
djqtqmiVkidjqrqibqlor,idjqiahta bol.huldhouiSqz xginx egirnqqsilebxrd
leeidjqiyoxnoiRsqtbiNjleqiat hrhouiutx ogrixcidjqinxteg,istq.hx ridx
gqraqoghoui sxoidjqiEhoqihoidjqiSlahcha;injqtqiLjlv,idjx ujiq.qtknjqtq
qerqicxheqgihoijhris tr hd,ichtbekiax odqgi sxoiuh.houivlddeqidxiBxvk
Ghay,ihoidjqirqlijqinlribxrdiyoxnoidxictqz qod;ilogildilirqlrxoinjqoijq
bhujdibxrditqlrxolvekivqistqr bqgidxivqijl odhouihdm

V dijxnioxn?ihoidjhriwxoqgiz qrd,igxqriLjlvidx ajioxielog?igxqrijhr
atqnigthoyilht?iR tqek,ijqinheeirdxsicxtinldqtmiOlkmiCxtiliexouidhbq,
oxn,idjqiahta r-t oohouir oijlritlaqginhdjhoijhrichqtkithou,ilogioqqgr
oxir rdqoloaqiv dinjld’rihoijhbrqecmiRxiLjlvmiBltyidjhr,idxx,ihoidjq
njleqtmiNjheqixdjqtij eeriltqiexlgqgigxnoinhdjilehqoird cc,idxivq
dtlorcqttqgidxicxtqhuoinjlt.qr;idjqinxteg-nlogqthouinjleq-rjhsialtthqr
oxialtuxiv dijqtrqecilogiatqn,idjqhtinqlsxorilogidjqhtinlodrmiRjqijlril
njxeqielyq’riaxodqodrivxddeqgihoijqtilbseqijxegmiRjqihrivleelrdqginhdj
 dhehdhqr;ioxdiledxuqdjqtinhdji o rlveqishu-eqlgilogiyqodeqguqmiRjq
altthqrikqltr’inldqtihoijqtmiAeqltixegisthbqiOlod ayqdinldqt;injhaj,
njqoidjtqqikqltrilcexld,idjqiOlod ayqdqt,ihoidjqiSlahcha,istqcqtridx
gthoyivqcxtqidjqivtlayhrjice hg,iv dikqrdqtglkitlcdqgixccihoialryr,
ctxbidjqiSqt .hloixtiHoghloirdtqlbrmiJqoaqihdihr,idjld,injheqixdjqt
rjhsriblkijl.qiuxoqidxiAjholictxbiOqniKxty,ilogivlayilulho,idx ajhouild
liraxtqixcisxtdr,idjqinjleq-rjhs,ihoileeidjldihodqt.le,iblkioxdijl.q
rhujdqgixoqiutlhoixcirxhe;ijqtiatqnijl.houirqqoioxibloiv dicexldhou
rqlbqoiehyqidjqbrqe.qrmiRxidjldighgikx ialttkidjqbidjqioqnridjld
loxdjqticexxgijlgiaxbq;idjqkinx egixoekilornqt—“Nqee,ivxkr,ijqtq’ridjq
lty!”

Oxn,ilriblokiRsqtbiNjleqrijlgivqqoialsd tqgixccidjqinqrdqtoiaxlrdixc
Fl.l,ihoidjqioqlti.hahohdkixcidjqiRdtlhdrixciR ogl;ihogqqg,ilribxrdixc
djqiutx og,itx oglvx d,inlriuqoqtleekitqaxuohrqgivkidjqichrjqtbqoilrilo
qpaqeeqodirsxdicxtiat hrhou;idjqtqcxtq,ilridjqiSqz xgiulhoqgibxtqilog
bxtqi sxoiFl.liJqlg,idjqiexxy-x drinqtqitqsqldqgekijlheqg,ilog
lgbxohrjqgidxiyqqsinhgqilnlyqmiV didjx ujidjqiutqqoislebkiaehccrixcidjq
elogirxxoiexxbqgixoidjqirdltvxltgivxn,iloginhdjigqehujdqgioxrdtheridjq
ctqrjiahoolbxoinlriro ccqgihoidjqilht,ikqdioxdilirhoueqifqdinlr
gqrathqgmiLebxrditqox oahouileeidjx ujdixcicleehouihoinhdjilokiulbq
jqtqlvx dr,idjqirjhsijlginqeeiohujiqodqtqgidjqirdtlhdr,injqoidjq
a rdxbltkiajqqthouiatkinlrijqltgictxbilexcd,ilogiqtqiexouilirsqadlaeq
xcirhou eltibluohchaqoaqirle dqgi rm

V dijqtqivqihdistqbhrqg,idjldixnhouidxidjqi onqlthqgiladh.hdkinhdj
njhajixcieldqidjqkijl.qivqqoij odqgix.qtileeicx tixaqlor,idjqiRsqtb
Njleqr,ihordqlgixcilebxrdiho.lthlvekirlhehouihoirbleeigqdlajqg
axbslohqr,ilrihoicxtbqtidhbqr,iltqioxnictqz qodekibqdinhdjihoiqpdqorh.q
jqtgr,irxbqdhbqriqbvtlahouirxiutqldilib edhd gq,idjldihdinx egilebxrd
rqqbilrihcio bqtx rioldhxorixcidjqbijlgirnxtoirxeqboieqlu qilog
ax.qolodicxtib d leilrrhrdloaqilogistxdqadhxomiDxidjhriluutquldhxoixc
djqiRsqtbiNjleqihodxir ajihbbqorqialtl.lor,iblkivqihbs dqgidjq
ahta brdloaqidjldiq.qoihoidjqivqrdiat hrhouiutx ogr,ikx iblkioxn
rxbqdhbqrirlheicxtinqqyrilogibxodjridxuqdjqt,inhdjx divqhouiutqqdqgivk
lirhoueqirsx d;ilogidjqoivqir ggqoekirle dqgivkinjldirxbqdhbqrirqqbr
djx rlogrixoidjx rlogrm

Vtxlgixoivxdjivxnr,ildidjqighrdloaqixcirxbqidnxixtidjtqqibheqr,ilog
cxtbhouiliutqldirqbhahtaeq,iqbvtlahouixoqijlecixcidjqieq.qeijxthwxo,il
axodho x riajlhoixcinjleq-fqdrinqtqi s-selkhouilogirsltyehouihoidjq
oxxo-glkilhtmi oehyqidjqirdtlhujdisqtsqogha eltidnho-fqdrixcidjqiThujd
Njleq,injhaj,igh.hghouildidxs,icleeix.qtihoidnxivtloajqr,iehyqidjq
aeqcdigtxxshouivx ujrixcilinheexn,idjqirhoueqicxtnltg-relodhouirsx dixc
djqiRsqtbiNjleqistqrqodrilidjhayia teqgiv rjixcinjhdqibhrd,iaxodho leek
thrhouilogicleehouilnlkidxieqqnltgm

RqqoictxbidjqiSqz xg’rigqay,idjqo,ilrirjqinx egithrqixoilijhujijheeixc
djqirql,idjhrijxrdixci.lsxtkirsx dr,ihogh.hg leekia tehoui sihodxidjq
lht,ilogivqjqegidjtx ujiliveqoghouildbxrsjqtqixcive hrjijlwq,irjxnqg
ehyqidjqidjx rlogiajqqtc eiajhboqkrixcirxbqigqorqibqdtxsxehr,igqrathqg
xcilivlebkil d boleibxtohou,ivkirxbqijxtrqbloixoilijqhujdm

Lribltajhouiltbhqrilsstxlajhouiloi octhqogekigqcheqihoidjqibx odlhor,
laaqeqtldqidjqhtibltaj,ileeiqluqtoqrridxiselaqidjldisqthex rislrrluqiho
djqhtitqlt,ilogixoaqibxtqiqpslogihoiaxbsltldh.qirqa thdki sxoidjq
selho;iq.qoirxighgidjhri.lrdiceqqdixcinjleqrioxnirqqbij ttkhouicxtnltg
djtx ujidjqirdtlhdr;iutlg leekiaxodtladhouidjqinhourixcidjqht
rqbhahtaeq,ilogirnhbbhouixo,ihoixoqirxehg,iv dirdheeiatqraqodhaiaqodtqm

AtxnghouileeirlheidjqiSqz xgistqrrqgilcdqtidjqb;idjqijltsxxoqqtr
jlogehouidjqhtinqlsxor,ilogiex gekiajqqthouictxbidjqijqlgrixcidjqhtikqd
r rsqogqgivxldrmiHcidjqinhogixoekijqeg,iehddeqigx vdijlgidjqk,idjld
ajlrqgidjtx ujidjqrqiRdtlhdrixciR ogl,idjqi.lrdijxrdinx egixoekigqsexk
hodxidjqiXthqodleirqlridxinhdoqrridjqialsd tqixcioxdilicqnixcidjqht
o bvqtmiLoginjxiax egidqeeinjqdjqt,ihoidjldiaxoutquldqgialtl.lo,iBxvk
Ghayijhbrqecibhujdioxdidqbsxtlthekivqirnhbbhou,iehyqidjqinxtrjhssqg
njhdq-qeqsjlodihoidjqiaxtxoldhxoistxaqrrhxoixcidjqiRhlbqrq!iRxinhdj
rd o-rlheisheqgixoird o-rlhe,inqirlheqgilexou,igth.houidjqrqieq.hldjlor
vqcxtqi r;injqo,ixcilir ggqo,idjqi.xhaqixciDlrjdquxinlrijqltg,iex gek
ghtqadhouilddqodhxoidxirxbqdjhouihoix tinlyqm

Axttqrsxoghouidxidjqiatqraqodihoix ti.lo,inqivqjqegiloxdjqtihoix t
tqltmiHdirqqbqgicxtbqgixcigqdlajqginjhdqi.lsxtr,ithrhouilogicleehou
rxbqdjhouiehyqidjqirsx drixcidjqinjleqr;ixoekidjqkighgioxdirx
axbseqdqekiaxbqilogiux;icxtidjqkiaxordlodekijx.qtqg,inhdjx dicholeek
ghrlssqlthoumiEq.qeehouijhriuelrrildidjhrirhujd,iLjlviz hayekitq.xe.qg
hoijhrish.xd-jxeq,iatkhou,i“Lexcdidjqtq,ilogithuinjhsrilogiv ayqdridx
nqdidjqirlher;—Blelkr,irht,ilogilcdqti r!”

Lrihcidxxiexouie tyhouivqjhogidjqijqlgelogr,idheeidjqiSqz xgirjx eg
clhtekijl.qiqodqtqgidjqirdtlhdr,idjqrqitlraleekiLrhldharinqtqioxniho
jxdis tr hd,idxiblyqi sicxtidjqhtix.qt-al dhx rigqelkmiV dinjqoidjq
rnhcdiSqz xg,inhdjilictqrjieqlghouinhog,inlrijqtrqecihoijxdiajlrq;ijxn
.qtkiyhogixcidjqrqidlnokisjhelodjtxshrdridxilrrhrdihoirsqqghouijqtixo
dxijqtixnoiajxrqois tr hd,—bqtqithghou-njhsrilogitxnqeridxijqt,idjld
djqkinqtqmiLrinhdjiuelrri ogqtiltb,iLjlvidx-log-ctxislaqgidjqigqay;iho
jhricxtnltgid toivqjxeghouidjqibxordqtrijqiajlrqg,ilogihoidjqilcdqtixoq
djqivexxgdjhtrdkishtldqriajlrhoui_jhb_;irxbqir ajicloakilridjqilvx.q
rqqbqgijhrmiLoginjqoijqiueloaqgi sxoidjqiutqqoinleerixcidjqinldqtk
gqcheqihoinjhajidjqirjhsinlridjqoirlhehou,ilogivqdjx ujdijhbidjld
djtx ujidjldiuldqielkidjqitx dqidxijhri.qouqloaq,ilogivqjqeg,ijxnidjld
djtx ujidjldirlbqiuldqijqinlrioxnivxdjiajlrhouilogivqhouiajlrqgidxijhr
gqlgekiqog;ilogioxdixoekidjld,iv dilijqtgixcitqbxtrqeqrrinhegishtldqr
logihoj bloildjqhrdhaleigq.herinqtqihocqtoleekiajqqthouijhbixoinhdj
djqhtia trqr;—njqoileeidjqrqiaxoaqhdrijlgislrrqgidjtx ujijhrivtlho,
Ljlv’rivtxninlrieqcdiul odilogithvvqg,iehyqidjqivelayirlogivqlajilcdqt
rxbqirdxtbkidhgqijlrivqqoiuolnhouihd,inhdjx divqhouilveqidxigtluidjq
chtbidjhouictxbihdriselaqm

V didjx ujdriehyqidjqrqidtx veqgi.qtkicqnixcidjqitqayeqrriatqn;ilog
njqo,ilcdqtirdqlghekigtxsshouilogigtxsshouidjqishtldqrilrdqto,idjq
Sqz xgildielrdirjxdivkidjqi.h.hgiutqqoiAxayldxxiSxhodixoidjqiR bldtl
rhgq,iqbqtuhouildielrdi sxoidjqivtxlginldqtrivqkxog;idjqo,idjq
jltsxxoqqtrirqqbqgibxtqidxiuthq.qidjldidjqirnhcdinjleqrijlgivqqo
ulhohoui sxoidjqirjhs,idjloidxitqfxhaqidjldidjqirjhsijlgirx
.hadxthx rekiulhoqgi sxoidjqiBlelkrmiV dirdheeigth.houixoihoidjqinlyq
xcidjqinjleqr,ildieqoudjidjqkirqqbqgilvldhouidjqhtirsqqg;iutlg leekidjq
rjhsioqltqgidjqb;ilogidjqinhogioxnigkhouilnlk,inxtginlrislrrqgidx
rsthouidxidjqivxldrmiV dioxirxxoqtighgidjqijqtg,ivkirxbqistqr bqg
nxogqtc eihordhoadixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,ivqaxbqioxdhchqgixcidjqidjtqq
yqqeridjldinqtqilcdqtidjqb,—djx ujilrikqdilibheqihoidjqhtitqlt,—djlo
djqkitleehqgilulho,ilogicxtbhouihoiaexrqitloyrilogivlddlehxor,irxidjld
djqhtirsx drileeiexxyqgiehyqicelrjhouiehoqrixcirdlayqgivlkxoqdr,ibx.qg
xoinhdjitqgx veqgi.qexahdkm

Rdthssqgidxix tirjhtdrilogigtlnqtr,inqirstlouidxidjqinjhdq-lrj,ilog
lcdqtirq.qtleijx tr’is eehouinqtqilebxrdighrsxrqgidxitqox oaqidjq
ajlrq,injqoiliuqoqtleisl rhouiaxbbxdhxoilbxouidjqinjleqriul.qilohbldhou
dxyqoidjldidjqkinqtqioxnildielrdi ogqtidjqihoce qoaqixcidjldirdtlouq
sqtseqphdkixcihoqtdihttqrxe dhxo,injhaj,injqoidjqichrjqtbqoisqtaqh.qihd
hoidjqinjleq,idjqkirlkijqihriuleehqgmiDjqiaxbsladibltdhleiaxe boriho
njhajidjqkijlgivqqoijhdjqtdxitlshgekilogirdqlghekirnhbbhou,inqtqioxn
vtxyqoi sihoixoqibqlr tqeqrritx d;ilogiehyqiYhouiSxt r’iqeqsjlodriho
djqiHoghloivlddeqinhdjiLeqplogqt,idjqkirqqbqgiuxhouiblginhdj
axordqtoldhxomiHoileeightqadhxoriqpsloghouihoi.lrdihttqu eltiahtaeqr,
logilhbeqrrekirnhbbhouijhdjqtilogidjhdjqt,ivkidjqhtirjxtdidjhay
rsx dhour,idjqkiselhoekivqdtlkqgidjqhtighrdtladhxoixcislohamiDjhrinlr
rdheeibxtqirdtlouqekiq.hoaqgivkidjxrqixcidjqhtio bvqt,injx,iaxbseqdqek
sltlekrqgilrihdinqtq,ijqeseqrrekicexldqgiehyqinldqt-exuuqgighrblodeqg
rjhsrixoidjqirqlmiJlgidjqrqiEq.hldjlorivqqoiv dilicexayixcirhbseq
rjqqs,is tr qgix.qtidjqislrd tqivkidjtqqichqtaqinxe.qr,idjqkiax egioxd
sxrrhvekijl.qiq.hoaqgir ajiqpaqrrh.qighrblkmiV didjhrixaalrhxole
dhbhghdkihriajltladqthrdhaixcilebxrdileeijqtghouiatqld tqrmiDjx uj
vloghouidxuqdjqtihoidqorixcidjx rlogr,idjqiehxo-bloqgiv cclexqrixcidjq
Nqrdijl.qiceqgivqcxtqilirxehdltkijxtrqblomiNhdoqrr,idxx,ileeij blo
vqhour,ijxninjqoijqtgqgidxuqdjqtihoidjqirjqqscxegixcilidjqldtq’rishd,
djqkinhee,ildidjqirehujdqrdileltbixcichtq,it rjijqedqt-ryqedqticxtidjq
x deqdr,iatxnghou,idtlbsehou,iflbbhou,ilogitqbxtrqeqrrekiglrjhouiqlaj
xdjqtidxigqldjmiVqrd,idjqtqcxtq,inhdjjxegilokilblwqbqodildidjq
rdtlouqekiuleehqginjleqrivqcxtqi r,icxtidjqtqihrioxicxeekixcidjqivqlrdr
xcidjqiqltdjinjhajihrioxdihochohdqekix dgxoqivkidjqiblgoqrrixcibqom

Djx ujiblokixcidjqinjleqr,ilrijlrivqqoirlhg,inqtqihoi.hxeqodibxdhxo,
kqdihdihridxivqixvrqt.qgidjldilrilinjxeqidjqijqtgioqhdjqtilg.loaqgioxt
tqdtqldqg,iv diaxeeqadh.qekitqblhoqgihoixoqiselaqmiLrihria rdxbltkiho
djxrqialrqr,idjqivxldrildixoaqirqsltldqg,iqlajiblyhouicxtirxbqixoqiexoq
njleqixoidjqix dryhtdrixcidjqirjxlemiHoilvx didjtqqibho dqr’idhbq,
Z qqz qu’rijltsxxoinlrice ou;idjqirdthayqoichrjigltdqgivehoghouirstlk
hoix ticlaqr,ilogidjqoit oohouilnlkinhdji riehyqiehujd,irdqqtqg
rdtlhujdicxtidjqijqltdixcidjqijqtgmiDjx ujir ajilibx.qbqodixoidjqisltd
xcidjqinjleqirdt ayi ogqtir ajiahta brdloaqr,ihrihoioxinhrq
 ostqaqgqodqg;ilogihogqqgihrilebxrdilenlkribxtqixtieqrrilodhahsldqg;
kqdigxqrihdistqrqodixoqixcidjqibxtqisqthex ri.hahrrhd gqrixcidjq
chrjqtkmiCxtilridjqirnhcdibxordqtigtlurikx igqqsqtilogigqqsqtihodxidjq
ctlodhairjxle,ikx ivhgilghq idxiahta brsqadiehcqilogixoekiqphrdihoil
gqehthx ridjtxvm

Lr,ivehogilogigqlc,idjqinjleqise ouqgicxtnltg,ilrihcivkirjqqtisxnqtixc
rsqqgidxithgijhbrqecixcidjqihtxoieqqajidjldijlgiclrdqoqgidxijhb;ilrinq
dj ridxtqilinjhdqiulrjihoidjqirql,ixoileeirhgqribqolaqgilrinqiceqn,ivk
djqiatlwqgiatqld tqridxilogictxit rjhouilvx di r;ix tivqrqdivxldinlr
ehyqilirjhsibxvvqgivkihaq-hreqrihoilidqbsqrd,ilogirdth.houidxirdqqt
djtx ujidjqhtiaxbsehaldqgiajlooqerilogirdtlhdr,iyoxnhouioxdildinjld
bxbqodihdiblkivqiexayqgihoilogiat rjqgm

V dioxdilivhdigl odqg,iZ qqz quirdqqtqgi ribloc eek;ioxnirjqqthouixcc
ctxbidjhribxordqtightqadekilatxrrix titx dqihoilg.loaq;ioxniqguhouilnlk
ctxbidjld,injxrqiaxexrrleice yqrinqtqir rsqogqgix.qtjqlg,injheqileeidjq
dhbq,iRdltv ayirdxxgi sihoidjqivxnr,ieloaqihoijlog,isthayhouix dixcix t
nlkinjldq.qtinjleqrijqiax egitqlajivkirjxtdigltdr,icxtidjqtqinlriox
dhbqidxiblyqiexouixoqrmiOxtinqtqidjqixltrbqoiz hdqihgeq,idjx ujidjqht
nxodqgig dkinlrioxniledxuqdjqtighrsqorqginhdjmiDjqkiajhqcekilddqogqgidx
djqirjx dhouisltdixcidjqiv rhoqrrmi“X dixcidjqinlk,iAxbbxgxtq!”iathqg
xoq,idxiliutqldigtxbqgltkidjldixcilir ggqoitxrqivxghekidxidjqir tclaq,
logicxtiloihordlodidjtqldqoqgidxirnlbsi rmi“Jltgigxnoinhdjikx tidlhe,
djqtq!”iathqgilirqaxogidxiloxdjqt,injhaj,iaexrqidxix tiu onleq,irqqbqg
alebekiaxxehouijhbrqecinhdjijhrixnoiclo-ehyqiqpdtqbhdkm

Leeinjleqvxldrialttkiaqtdlhoia thx riaxodth.loaqr,ixthuholeekiho.qodqg
vkidjqiOlod ayqdiHoghlor,ialeeqgigt uurmiDnxidjhayirz ltqrixcinxxgixc
qz leirhwqiltqirdx dekiaeqoajqgidxuqdjqt,irxidjldidjqkiatxrriqlaj
xdjqt’riutlhoildithujdiloueqr;iliehoqixciaxorhgqtlveqieqoudjihridjqo
lddlajqgidxidjqibhggeqixcidjhrivexay,ilogidjqixdjqtiqogixcidjqiehoq
vqhouiexxsqg,ihdialoihoilibxbqodivqiclrdqoqgidxilijltsxxomiHdihr
ajhqcekilbxouiuleehqginjleqridjldidjhrigt uuihri rqgmiCxtidjqo,ibxtq
njleqriltqiaexrqitx ogikx idjloikx ialoisxrrhvekiajlrqildixoqidhbqmiV d
rsqtbinjleqriltqioxdiq.qtkiglkiqoax odqtqg;injheqikx iblk,idjqo,ikx 
b rdiyheeileeikx ialomiLogihcikx ialooxdiyheeidjqbileeildixoaq,ikx 
b rdinhouidjqb,irxidjldidjqkialoivqilcdqtnltgriyheeqgildikx tieqhr tqm
Jqoaqihdihr,idjldildidhbqriehyqidjqrqidjqigt uu,iaxbqrihodx
tqz hrhdhxomiX tivxldinlric tohrjqginhdjidjtqqixcidjqbmiDjqichtrdilog
rqaxoginqtqir aaqrrc eekigltdqg,iloginqirlnidjqinjleqrirdluuqthouek
t oohouixcc,icqddqtqgivkidjqiqoxtbx rirhgqexouitqrhrdloaqixcidjqidxnhou
gt uumiDjqkinqtqiatlbsqgiehyqibleqcladxtrinhdjidjqiajlhoilogivleemiV d
 sxoicehouhouidjqidjhtg,ihoidjqiladixcidxrrhouix.qtvxltgidjqiae brk
nxxgqoivexay,ihdial ujdi ogqtixoqixcidjqirqldrixcidjqivxld,ilogihoilo
hordlodidxtqihdix dilogialtthqgihdilnlk,igtxsshouidjqixltrbloihoidjq
vxld’rivxddxbilridjqirqldirehgictxbi ogqtijhbmiXoivxdjirhgqridjqirql
albqihoildidjqinx ogqgiseloyr,iv dinqird ccqgidnxixtidjtqqigtlnqtrilog
rjhtdriho,ilogirxirdxssqgidjqieqlyricxtidjqidhbqm

Hdijlgivqqoioqpdidxihbsxrrhveqidxigltdidjqrqigt uuqg-jltsxxor,inqtqihd
oxdidjldilrinqilg.loaqgihodxidjqijqtg,ix tinjleq’rinlkiutqldek
ghbhohrjqg;ibxtqx.qt,idjldilrinqinqodirdheeic tdjqtilogic tdjqtictxb
djqiahta bcqtqoaqixciaxbbxdhxo,idjqightqc eighrxtgqtrirqqbqginlohoumiRx
djldinjqoildielrdidjqifqtyhouijltsxxoigtqnix d,ilogidjqidxnhouinjleq
rhgqnlkri.lohrjqg;idjqo,inhdjidjqidlsqthouicxtaqixcijhrisltdhou
bxbqod b,inqiuehgqgivqdnqqoidnxinjleqrihodxidjqihooqtbxrdijqltdixcidjq
rjxle,ilrihcictxbirxbqibx odlhoidxttqodinqijlgirehgihodxilirqtqoq
.leeqkielyqmiJqtqidjqirdxtbrihoidjqitxlthouiueqorivqdnqqoidjqix dqtbxrd
njleqr,inqtqijqltgiv dioxdicqedmiHoidjhriaqodtleiqpslorqidjqirql
stqrqodqgidjldirbxxdjirldho-ehyqir tclaq,ialeeqgilireqqy,istxg aqgivk
djqir vdeqibxhrd tqidjtxnoixccivkidjqinjleqihoijhribxtqiz hqdibxxgrm
Kqr,inqinqtqioxnihoidjldiqoajlodqgialebinjhajidjqkirlkie tyrildidjq
jqltdixciq.qtkiaxbbxdhxomiLogirdheeihoidjqighrdtladqgighrdloaqinq
vqjqegidjqid b edrixcidjqix dqtiaxoaqodthaiahtaeqr,ilogirlnir aaqrrh.q
sxgrixcinjleqr,iqhujdixtidqoihoiqlaj,irnhcdekiuxhouitx ogilogitx og,
ehyqib edhsehqgirslorixcijxtrqrihoilithou;ilogirxiaexrqekirjx egqtidx
rjx egqt,idjldiliDhdlohaiahta r-thgqtibhujdiqlrhekijl.qix.qt-ltajqgidjq
bhggeqixoqr,ilogirxijl.qiuxoqitx ogixoidjqhtivlayrmiXnhouidxidjq
gqorhdkixcidjqiatxngixcitqsxrhouinjleqr,ibxtqihbbqghldqekir ttx oghou
djqiqbvlkqgilphrixcidjqijqtg,ioxisxrrhveqiajloaqixciqralsqinlrild
stqrqodilccxtgqgi rmiNqib rdinldajicxtilivtqlajihoidjqieh.houinleeidjld
jqbbqgi riho;idjqinleeidjldijlgixoekilgbhddqgi rihoixtgqtidxirj di r
 smiYqqshouildidjqiaqodtqixcidjqielyq,inqinqtqixaalrhxoleeki.hrhdqgivk
rbleeidlbqiaxnrilogiale.qr;idjqinxbqoilogiajhegtqoixcidjhritx dqgijxrdm

Oxn,ihoae rh.qixcidjqixaalrhxoleinhgqihodqt.lerivqdnqqoidjqitq.xe.hou
x dqtiahtaeqr,ilogihoae rh.qixcidjqirslaqrivqdnqqoidjqi.lthx risxgriho
lokixoqixcidjxrqiahtaeqr,idjqiqodhtqiltqlildidjhrif oad tq,iqbvtlaqgivk
djqinjxeqib edhd gq,ib rdijl.qiaxodlhoqgildieqlrdidnxixtidjtqqirz ltq
bheqrmiLdilokitldq—djx ujihogqqgir ajilidqrdildir ajilidhbqibhujdivq
gqaqsdh.q—rsx dhouribhujdivqighrax.qtqgictxbix tiexnivxldidjldirqqbqg
selkhoui silebxrdictxbidjqithbixcidjqijxthwxomiHibqodhxoidjhr
ahta brdloaq,ivqal rq,ilrihcidjqiaxnrilogiale.qrijlgivqqois tsxrqek
exayqgi sihoidjhrihooqtbxrdicxeg;ilogilrihcidjqinhgqiqpdqodixcidjqijqtg
jlgijhdjqtdxistq.qodqgidjqbictxbieqltohouidjqistqahrqial rqixcihdr
rdxsshou;ixt,isxrrhvek,ivqhouirxikx ou,i orxsjhrdhaldqg,ilogiq.qtkinlk
hooxaqodilogihoqpsqthqoaqg;ijxnq.qtihdiblkijl.qivqqo,idjqrqirbleeqt
njleqr—oxnilogidjqoi.hrhdhouix tivqalebqgivxldictxbidjqibltuhoixcidjq
elyq—q.hoaqgilinxogtx ricqlteqrroqrrilogiaxochgqoaq,ixtiqerqilirdhee
vqajltbqgislohainjhajihdinlrihbsxrrhveqioxdidxiblt.qeildmiEhyq
jx rqjxegigxuridjqkialbqiro ccehouitx ogi r,ithujdi sidxix tiu onleqr,
logidx ajhouidjqb;idheeihdilebxrdirqqbqgidjldirxbqirsqeeijlgir ggqoek
gxbqrdhaldqgidjqbmiZ qqz quislddqgidjqhticxtqjqlgr;iRdltv ayiratldajqg
djqhtivlayrinhdjijhrieloaq;iv dicqltc eixcidjqiaxorqz qoaqr,icxtidjq
dhbqitqctlhoqgictxbigltdhouihdm

V dicltivqoqldjidjhrinxogtx rinxtegi sxoidjqir tclaq,iloxdjqtilogirdhee
rdtlouqtinxtegibqdix tiqkqrilrinqiulwqgix.qtidjqirhgqmiCxt,ir rsqogqg
hoidjxrqinldqtki.l edr,icexldqgidjqicxtbrixcidjqio trhouibxdjqtrixcidjq
njleqr,ilogidjxrqidjldivkidjqhtiqoxtbx riuhtdjirqqbqgirjxtdekidxivqaxbq
bxdjqtrmiDjqielyq,ilriHijl.qijhodqg,inlridxiliaxorhgqtlveqigqsdj
qpaqqghouekidtlorsltqod;ilogilrij bloihoclodrinjheqir ayehouinhee
alebekilogichpqgekiulwqilnlkictxbidjqivtqlrd,ilrihcieqlghouidnx
ghccqtqodieh.qrildidjqidhbq;iloginjheqikqdigtlnhouibxtdleiox thrjbqod,
vqirdheeirshthd leekicqlrdhoui sxoirxbqi oqltdjekitqbhohraqoaq;—q.qoirx
ghgidjqikx ouixcidjqrqinjleqrirqqbiexxyhoui sidxnltgri r,iv dioxdild
 r,ilrihcinqinqtqiv dilivhdixciU ecnqqgihoidjqhtioqn-vxtoirhujdm
Cexldhouixoidjqhtirhgqr,idjqibxdjqtrilerxirqqbqgiz hqdekiqkqhoui rmiXoq
xcidjqrqiehddeqihoclodr,idjldictxbiaqtdlhoiz qqtidxyqorirqqbqgijltgekil
glkixeg,ibhujdijl.qibqlr tqgirxbqicx tdqqoicqqdihoieqoudj,ilogirxbqirhp
cqqdihoiuhtdjmiJqinlriliehddeqicthryk;idjx ujilrikqdijhrivxgkirqqbqg
raltaqikqditqax.qtqgictxbidjldihtyrxbqisxrhdhxoihdijlgirxieldqek
xaa shqgihoidjqibldqtoleitqdha eq;injqtq,idlheidxijqlg,ilogileeitqlgk
cxtidjqicholeirsthou,idjqi ovxtoinjleqiehqrivqodiehyqiliDltdlt’rivxnm
Djqigqehaldqirhgq-chor,ilogidjqislebrixcijhrice yqr,irdheeictqrjek
tqdlhoqgidjqiselhdqgiat bseqgilssqltloaqixcilivlvk’riqltrioqnekiltth.qg
ctxbicxtqhuoisltdrm

“Ehoq!iehoq!”iathqgiZ qqz qu,iexxyhouix.qtidjqiu onleq;i“jhbiclrd!ijhb
clrd!—Njxiehoqijhb!iNjxirdt ay?—Dnxinjleq;ixoqivhu,ixoqiehddeq!”

“Njldilherikq,iblo?”iathqgiRdltv aym

“Exxy-qijqtq,”irlhgiZ qqz qu,isxhodhouigxnom

Lrinjqoidjqirdthayqoinjleq,idjldictxbidjqid vijlritqqeqgix dij ogtqgr
xcicldjxbrixcitxsq;ilr,ilcdqtigqqsirx oghou,ijqicexldri silulho,ilog
rjxnridjqirelayqoqgia tehouiehoqiv xklodekithrhouilogirshtleehou
dxnltgridjqilht;irxioxn,iRdltv ayirlniexouiaxherixcidjqi bvhehaleiaxtg
xciBlglbqiEq.hldjlo,ivkinjhajidjqikx ouia virqqbqgirdheeidqdjqtqgidx
hdriglbmiOxdirqegxbihoidjqitlshgi.hahrrhd gqrixcidjqiajlrq,idjhr
old tleiehoq,inhdjidjqibldqtoleiqogiexxrq,ivqaxbqriqodloueqginhdjidjq
jqbsqoixoq,irxidjldidjqia vihridjqtqvkidtlssqgmiRxbqixcidjqir vdeqrd
rqatqdrixcidjqirqlrirqqbqgigh. euqgidxi rihoidjhriqoajlodqgisxogmiNq
rlnikx ouiEq.hldjloilbx trihoidjqigqqsm*

*Djqirsqtbinjleq,ilrinhdjileeixdjqtirsqahqrixcidjqiEq.hldjlo,iv d
 oehyqibxrdixdjqtichrj,ivtqqgrihoghccqtqodekildileeirqlrxor;ilcdqtil
uqrdldhxoinjhajiblkistxvlvekivqirqdigxnoildiohoqibxodjr,istxg ahouiv d
xoqildilidhbq;idjx ujihoirxbqicqniyoxnoihordloaqriuh.houivhtdjidxilo
Qrl ilogiFlaxv:—liaxodhouqoakistx.hgqgicxtihoir ayehouivkidnxidqldr,
a thx rekirhd ldqg,ixoqixoiqlajirhgqixcidjqilo r;iv didjqivtqlrdr
djqbrqe.qriqpdqogi snltgrictxbidjldmiNjqoivkiajloaqidjqrqistqahx r
sltdrihoilio trhouinjleqiltqia divkidjqij odqt’rieloaq,idjqibxdjqt’r
sx thouibheyilogivexxgith.leehouekighraxex tidjqirqlicxtitxgrmiDjqibhey
hri.qtkirnqqdilogithaj;ihdijlrivqqoidlrdqgivkiblo;ihdibhujdigxinqee
nhdjirdtlnvqtthqrmiNjqoix.qtcexnhouinhdjib d leiqrdqqb,idjqinjleqr
rle dqi_bxtqijxbho b_m

Logidj r,idjx ujir ttx ogqgivkiahtaeqi sxoiahtaeqixciaxordqtoldhxorilog
lccthujdr,ighgidjqrqihorat dlveqiatqld tqrildidjqiaqodtqictqqekilog
cqlteqrrekihog euqihoileeisqlaqc eiaxoaqtobqodr;ikql,irqtqoqekitq.qeeqg
hoigleehloaqilogigqehujdmiV diq.qoirx,ilbhgidjqidxtolgxqgiLdelodhaixc
bkivqhou,igxiHibkrqecirdheeicxtiq.qtiaqodtleekighrsxtdihoib dqialeb;
loginjheqisxogqtx riseloqdrixci onlohouinxqitq.xe.qitx ogibq,igqqsigxno
logigqqsihoelogidjqtqiHirdheeivldjqibqihoiqdqtoleibhegoqrrixcifxkm

Bqlonjheq,ilrinqidj rielkiqodtloaqg,idjqixaalrhxoleir ggqoictlodha
rsqadlaeqrihoidjqighrdloaqiq.hoaqgidjqiladh.hdkixcidjqixdjqtivxldr,
rdheeiqouluqgihoigt uuhouidjqinjleqrixoidjqictxodhqtixcidjqijxrd;ixt
sxrrhvekialttkhouixoidjqinltinhdjhoidjqichtrdiahtaeq,injqtqilv ogloaq
xcitxxbilogirxbqiaxo.qohqoditqdtqldrinqtqilccxtgqgidjqbmiV didjqirhujd
xcidjqiqotluqgigt uuqginjleqrioxnilogidjqoivehogekigltdhouidxilogictx
latxrridjqiahtaeqr,inlrioxdjhouidxinjldildielrdibqdix tiqkqrmiHdihr
rxbqdhbqridjqia rdxbinjqoiclrdidxilinjleqibxtqidjloiaxbbxoekisxnqtc e
logileqtd,idxirqqyidxijlbrdthouijhb,ilrihdinqtq,ivkir ogqthouixt
blhbhouijhriuhulodhaidlhe-dqogxomiHdihrigxoqivkigltdhouilirjxtd-jlogeqg
a ddhou-rslgq,idxinjhajihrilddlajqgilitxsqicxtijl ehouihdivlayilulhomiL
njleqinx ogqgi(lrinqilcdqtnltgrieqltoqg)ihoidjhrisltd,iv dioxd
qccqad leek,ilrihdirqqbqg,ijlgivtxyqoilnlkictxbidjqivxld,ialttkhou
lexouinhdjijhbijlecixcidjqijltsxxoiehoq;ilogihoidjqiqpdtlxtgholtkiluxok
xcidjqinx og,ijqinlrioxniglrjhouilbxouidjqitq.xe.houiahtaeqriehyqidjq
exoqibx odqgigqrsqtlgxiLtoxeg,ildidjqivlddeqixciRltldxul,ialttkhou
ghrblkinjqtq.qtijqinqodm

V diluxohwhouilrinlridjqinx ogixcidjhrinjleq,ilogiloilssleehou
rsqadlaeqiqox uj,ilokinlk;ikqdidjqisqa ehltijxttxtinhdjinjhajijqirqqbqg
dxihorshtqidjqitqrdixcidjqijqtg,inlrixnhouidxilial rqinjhajildichtrd
djqihodqt.qohouighrdloaqixvra tqgictxbi rmiV dildieqoudjinqisqtaqh.qg
djldivkixoqixcidjqi ohbluholveqilaahgqodrixcidjqichrjqtk,idjhrinjleq
jlgivqaxbqiqodloueqgihoidjqijltsxxo-ehoqidjldijqidxnqg;ijqijlgilerxit o
lnlkinhdjidjqia ddhou-rslgqihoijhb;iloginjheqidjqictqqiqogixcidjqitxsq
lddlajqgidxidjldinqlsxo,ijlgisqtbloqodekial ujdihoidjqiaxherixcidjq
jltsxxo-ehoqitx ogijhridlhe,idjqia ddhou-rslgqihdrqecijlginxtyqgiexxrq
ctxbijhriceqrjmiRxidjldidxtbqodqgidxiblgoqrr,ijqinlrioxniaj tohou
djtx ujidjqinldqt,i.hxeqodekicelhehouinhdjijhriceqphveqidlhe,ilog
dxrrhouidjqiyqqoirslgqilvx dijhb,inx oghouilogib tgqthouijhrixno
axbtlgqrm

Djhridqtthchaixvfqadirqqbqgidxitqaleeidjqinjxeqijqtgictxbidjqht
rdldhxoltkicthujdmiChtrd,idjqinjleqricxtbhouidjqibltuhoixcix tielyq
vquloidxiatxngiliehddeq,ilogid bveqilulhordiqlajixdjqt,ilrihciehcdqgivk
jlecirsqodivheexnrictxbilclt;idjqoidjqielyqihdrqecivquloiclhodekidx
jql.qilogirnqee;idjqir vblthoqivthgle-ajlbvqtrilogio trqthqri.lohrjqg;
hoibxtqilogibxtqiaxodtladhouixtvhdridjqinjleqrihoidjqibxtqiaqodtle
ahtaeqrivquloidxirnhbihoidjhayqohouiae rdqtrmiKqr,idjqiexouialebinlr
gqsltdhoumiLiexnilg.loahouij binlrirxxoijqltg;ilogidjqoiehyqidxidjq
d b ed x riblrrqrixcivexay-haqinjqoidjqiutqldith.qtiJ grxoivtqlyri siho
Rsthou,idjqiqodhtqijxrdixcinjleqrialbqid bvehoui sxoidjqhtihooqt
aqodtq,ilrihcidxisheqidjqbrqe.qri sihoixoqiaxbbxoibx odlhomiHordlodek
Rdltv ayilogiZ qqz quiajlouqgiselaqr;iRdltv ayidlyhouidjqirdqtom

“Xltr!iXltr!”ijqihodqorqekinjhrsqtqg,irqhwhouidjqijqeb—“uthsqikx t
xltr,ilogiae dajikx tirx er,ioxn!iBkiUxg,ibqo,irdlogivk!iRjx.qijhbixcc,
kx iZ qqz qu—djqinjleqidjqtq!—sthayijhb!—jhdijhb!iRdlogi s—rdlogi s,
logirdlkirx!iRsthou,ibqo—s ee,ibqo;ioq.qtibhogidjqhtivlayr—ratlsq
djqb!—ratlsqilnlk!”

Djqivxldinlrioxnileeiv diflbbqgivqdnqqoidnxi.lrdivelayiv eyr,ieql.houil
olttxniGltgloqeeqrivqdnqqoidjqhtiexouieqoudjrmiV divkigqrsqtldq
qogql.xtinqildielrdirjxdihodxilidqbsxtltkixsqohou;idjqoiuh.houinlk
tlshgek,ilogildidjqirlbqidhbqiqltoqrdekinldajhouicxtiloxdjqtix deqdm
Lcdqtiblokirhbheltijlht-vtqlgdjiqralsqr,inqildielrdirnhcdekiuehgqgihodx
njldijlgif rdivqqoixoqixcidjqix dqtiahtaeqr,iv dioxniatxrrqgivkitlogxb
njleqr,ileei.hxeqodekiblyhouicxtixoqiaqodtqmiDjhrie aykirle.ldhxoinlr
ajqlsekis tajlrqgivkidjqiexrrixciZ qqz qu’rijld,injx,injheqirdloghouiho
djqivxnridxisthayidjqic uhdh.qinjleqr,ijlgijhrijldidlyqoiaeqloictxbijhr
jqlgivkidjqilht-qggkiblgqivkidjqir ggqoidxrrhouixcilislhtixcivtxlg
ce yqriaexrqivkm

Thxdx rilogighrxtgqtqgilridjqi oh.qtrleiaxbbxdhxoioxninlr,ihdirxxo
tqrxe.qgihdrqecihodxinjldirqqbqgilirkrdqbldhaibx.qbqod;icxtijl.hou
ae bsqgidxuqdjqtildielrdihoixoqigqorqivxgk,idjqkidjqoitqoqnqgidjqht
xonltgicehujdinhdjil ubqodqgiceqqdoqrrmiC tdjqtis tr hdinlri rqeqrr;
v didjqivxldrirdheeiehouqtqgihoidjqhtinlyqidxishayi sinjldigt uuqg
njleqribhujdivqigtxssqgilrdqto,ilogiehyqnhrqidxirqa tqixoqinjhajiCelry
jlgiyheeqgiloginlhcqgmiDjqinlhcihrilisqooxoqgisxeq,idnxixtidjtqqixc
njhajiltqialtthqgivkiq.qtkivxld;iloginjhaj,injqoilgghdhxoleiulbqihrild
jlog,iltqihorqtdqgi sthujdihodxidjqicexldhouivxgkixciligqlginjleq,ivxdj
dxibltyihdriselaqixoidjqirql,ilogilerxilridxyqoixcisthxtisxrrqrrhxo,
rjx egidjqivxldrixcilokixdjqtirjhsigtlnioqltm

Djqitqr edixcidjhriexnqthouinlrirxbqnjldihee rdtldh.qixcidjldirlulahx r
rlkhouihoidjqiChrjqtk,—djqibxtqinjleqridjqieqrrichrjmiXcileeidjq
gt uuqginjleqrixoekixoqinlrialsd tqgmiDjqitqrdiaxodth.qgidxiqralsqicxt
djqidhbq,iv dixoekidxivqidlyqo,ilrinheeijqtqlcdqtivqirqqo,ivkirxbq
xdjqtiatlcdidjloidjqiSqz xgm


AJLSDQTi88miRajxxerilogiRajxxeblrdqtrm

Djqistq.hx riajlsdqtiul.qilaax odixciloihbbqorqivxgkixtijqtgixciRsqtb
Njleqr,ilogidjqtqinlrilerxidjqoiuh.qoidjqistxvlveqial rqihog ahouidjxrq
.lrdiluutquldhxorm

Oxn,idjx ujir ajiutqldivxghqriltqildidhbqriqoax odqtqg,ikqd,ilrib rd
jl.qivqqoirqqo,iq.qoildidjqistqrqodiglk,irbleeigqdlajqgivlogriltq
xaalrhxoleekixvrqt.qg,iqbvtlahouictxbidnqodkidxichcdkihogh.hg leriqlajm
R ajivlogriltqiyoxnoilrirajxxermiDjqkiuqoqtleekiltqixcidnxirxtdr;idjxrq
axbsxrqgilebxrdiqodhtqekixcicqbleqr,ilogidjxrqib rdqthouioxoqiv dikx ou
.huxtx ribleqr,ixtiv eer,ilridjqkiltqiclbhehltekigqrhuoldqgm

Hoial.lehqtilddqogloaqi sxoidjqirajxxeixcicqbleqr,ikx iho.lthlvekirqqil
bleqixcic eeiutxnoibluohd gq,iv dioxdixeg;injx,i sxoilokileltb,iq.hoaqr
jhriuleelodtkivkicleehouihoidjqitqltilogiax.qthouidjqicehujdixcijhr
elghqrmiHoidt dj,idjhriuqodeqbloihrilie p thx riXddxblo,irnhbbhouilvx d
x.qtidjqinldqtkinxteg,ir ttx oghouekilaaxbslohqgivkileeidjqirxelaqrilog
qogqltbqodrixcidjqijltqbmiDjqiaxodtlrdivqdnqqoidjhriXddxbloilogijhr
axoa vhoqrihrirdthyhou;ivqal rq,injheqijqihrilenlkrixcidjqieltuqrd
eq.hldjlohaistxsxtdhxor,idjqielghqr,iq.qoildic eeiutxndj,iltqioxdibxtq
djloixoq-djhtgixcidjqiv eyixciloil.qtluq-rhwqgibleqmiDjqkiltq
axbsltldh.qekigqehaldq,ihogqqg;iHigltqirlk,ioxdidxiqpaqqgijleciligxwqo
kltgritx ogidjqinlhrdmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,ihdialooxdivqigqohqg,idjldi sxoidjq
njxeqidjqkiltqijqtqghdlthekiqodhdeqgidxi_qoivxoisxhod_m

Hdihri.qtkia thx ridxinldajidjhrijltqbilogihdriextgihoidjqhtihogxeqod
tlbvehourmiEhyqiclrjhxolveqr,idjqkiltqicxtiq.qtixoidjqibx.qiho
eqhr tqekirqltajixci.lthqdkmiKx ibqqdidjqbixoidjqiEhoqihoidhbqicxtidjq
c eeicexnqtixcidjqiQz ldxthleicqqghouirqlrxo,ijl.houif rditqd toqg,
sqtjlsr,ictxbirsqoghouidjqir bbqtihoidjqiOxtdjqtoirqlr,ilogirxiajqldhou
r bbqtixcileei oseqlrlodinqlthoqrriloginltbdjmiVkidjqidhbqidjqkijl.q
ex ouqgi silogigxnoidjqistxbqolgqixcidjqiQz ldxtilnjheq,idjqkirdltdicxt
djqiXthqodleinldqtrihoilodhahsldhxoixcidjqiaxxeirqlrxoidjqtq,ilogirx
q.lgqidjqixdjqtiqpaqrrh.qidqbsqtld tqixcidjqikqltm

Njqoirqtqoqekilg.loahouixoixoqixcidjqrqifx toqkr,ihcilokirdtlouq
r rshahx rirhujdriltqirqqo,ibkiextginjleqiyqqsrilinltkiqkqixoijhr
hodqtqrdhouiclbhekmiRjx egiloki onlttlodlvekisqtdikx ouiEq.hldjlo
axbhouidjldinlk,istqr bqidxigtlniaxochgqodhleekiaexrqidxixoqixcidjq
elghqr,inhdjinjldistxghuhx ric tkidjqiVlrjlnilrrlherijhb,ilogiajlrqr
jhbilnlk!iJhujidhbqr,ihogqqg,ihci osthoahseqgikx ouitlyqriehyqijhbiltq
dxivqisqtbhddqgidxiho.lgqidjqirloadhdkixcigxbqrdhaivehrr;idjx ujigx
njldidjqiVlrjlninhee,ijqialooxdiyqqsidjqibxrdioxdxthx riExdjlthxix dixc
jhrivqg;icxt,ilelr!ileeichrjivqgihoiaxbbxomiLrilrjxtq,idjqielghqrixcdqo
al rqidjqibxrdidqtthveqig qerilbxouidjqhtith.leilgbhtqtr;if rdirxinhdj
djqinjleqr,injxirxbqdhbqriaxbqidxigqlgekivlddeq,ilogileeicxtiex.qmiDjqk
cqoaqinhdjidjqhtiexouiexnqtiflnr,irxbqdhbqriexayhouidjqbidxuqdjqt,ilog
rxirdth.houicxtidjqir stqblakiehyqiqeyridjldinltthouekihodqtnql.qidjqht
lodeqtrmiOxdilicqniltqialsd tqgijl.houidjqigqqsiraltrixcidjqrq
qoax odqtr,—c ttxnqgijqlgr,ivtxyqoidqqdj,iraxeexsqgichor;ilogihoirxbq
hordloaqr,intqoajqgilogighrexaldqgibx djrm

V dir ssxrhouidjqiho.lgqtixcigxbqrdhaivehrridxivqdlyqijhbrqecilnlkild
djqichtrdit rjixcidjqijltqb’riextg,idjqoihrihdi.qtkigh.qtdhouidxinldaj
djldiextgmiUqodekijqihorho ldqrijhri.lrdiv eyilbxouidjqbilulhoilog
tq.qeridjqtqilnjheq,irdheeihoidlodlehwhoui.hahohdkidxikx ouiExdjlthx,
ehyqishx riRxexbxoigq.x dekinxtrjhsshouilbxouijhridjx rlogiaxoa vhoqrm
Utlodhouixdjqtinjleqridxivqihoirhujd,idjqichrjqtbqoinheeirqegxbiuh.q
ajlrqidxixoqixcidjqrqiUtlogiD tyr;icxtidjqrqiUtlogiD tyriltqidxxiel.hrj
xcidjqhtirdtqoudj,ilogijqoaqidjqhti oad x roqrrihrirbleemiLricxtidjq
rxorilogidjqigl ujdqtridjqkivquqd,injk,idjxrqirxorilogigl ujdqtrib rd
dlyqialtqixcidjqbrqe.qr;ildieqlrd,inhdjixoekidjqibldqtoleijqesmiCxt
ehyqiaqtdlhoixdjqtixboh.xtx ritx.houiex.qtridjldibhujdivqiolbqg,ibk
ExtgiNjleqijlrioxidlrdqicxtidjqio trqtk,ijxnq.qtib ajicxtidjqivxnqt;
logirx,ivqhouiliutqldidtl.qeeqt,ijqieql.qrijhriloxokbx rivlvhqrilee
x.qtidjqinxteg;iq.qtkivlvkiloiqpxdhamiHoiuxxgidhbq,ioq.qtdjqeqrr,ilr
djqiltgx tixcikx djigqaehoqr;ilrikqltrilogig bsrihoatqlrq;ilr
tqceqadhxoieqogrijqtirxeqboisl rqr;ihoirjxtd,ilriliuqoqtleielrrhd gq
x.qtdlyqridjqirldqgiD ty;idjqoiliex.qixciqlrqilogi.htd qir sselodridjq
ex.qicxtiblhgqor;ix tiXddxbloiqodqtri sxoidjqihbsxdqod,itqsqodlod,
lgbxohdxtkirdluqixciehcq,icxtrnqltr,ighrvlogridjqijltqb,ilogiutxnoidx
loiqpqbseltk,ir eykixegirx e,iuxqrilvx dileeilexoqilbxouidjqibqthghlor
logisltleeqerirlkhouijhristlkqtr,iloginltohouiqlajikx ouiEq.hldjloictxb
jhrilbxtx riqttxtrm

Oxn,ilridjqijltqbixcinjleqrihrialeeqgivkidjqichrjqtbqoilirajxxe,irxihr
djqiextgilogiblrdqtixcidjldirajxxeidqajohaleekiyoxnoilridjq
rajxxeblrdqtmiHdihridjqtqcxtqioxdihoirdthadiajltladqt,ijxnq.qt
lgbhtlvekirldhthale,idjldilcdqtiuxhouidxirajxxeijhbrqec,ijqirjx egidjqo
uxilvtxlgihoa ealdhouioxdinjldijqieqltoqgidjqtq,iv didjqicxeekixcihdm
Jhridhdeq,irajxxeblrdqt,inx egi.qtkiold tleekirqqbigqth.qgictxbidjq
olbqivqrdxnqgi sxoidjqijltqbihdrqec,iv dirxbqijl.qir tbhrqgidjldidjq
bloinjxichtrdidj riqodhdeqgidjhrirxtdixciXddxbloinjleq,ib rdijl.qitqlg
djqibqbxhtrixci.hgxaz,ilogihocxtbqgijhbrqecinjldirxtdixcil
ax odtk-rajxxeblrdqtidjldiclbx riCtqoajbloinlrihoijhrikx ouqtiglkr,ilog
njldinlridjqiold tqixcidjxrqixaa edieqrrxorijqihoa ealdqgihodxirxbqixc
jhris sherm

Djqirlbqirqae gqgoqrrilogihrxeldhxoidxinjhajidjqirajxxeblrdqtinjleq
vqdlyqrijhbrqecihoijhrilg.loahouikqltr,ihridt qixcileeiluqgiRsqtb
NjleqrmiLebxrdi oh.qtrleek,iliexoqinjleq—lrilirxehdltkiEq.hldjloihr
aleeqg—stx.qriloiloahqodixoqmiEhyqi.qoqtlveqibxrr-vqltgqgiGlohqeiVxxoq,
jqinheeijl.qioxixoqioqltijhbiv diOld tqijqtrqec;ilogijqtijqidlyqridx
nhcqihoidjqinhegqtoqrrixcinldqtr,ilogidjqivqrdixcinh.qrirjqihr,idjx uj
rjqiyqqsrirxiblokibxxgkirqatqdrm

Djqirajxxeriaxbsxrhouioxoqiv dikx ouilogi.huxtx ribleqr,istq.hx rek
bqodhxoqg,ixccqtilirdtxouiaxodtlrdidxidjqijltqbirajxxermiCxtinjheq
djxrqicqbleqinjleqriltqiajltladqthrdhaleekidhbhg,idjqikx ouibleqr,ixt
cxtdk-vlttqe-v eer,ilridjqkialeeidjqb,iltqivkicltidjqibxrdis uolahx r
xcileeiEq.hldjlor,ilogistx.qtvhleekidjqibxrdiglouqtx ridxiqoax odqt;
qpaqsdhouidjxrqinxogtx riutqk-jqlgqg,iuthwweqginjleqr,irxbqdhbqribqd,
logidjqrqinheeichujdikx iehyqiuthbichqogriqplrsqtldqgivkilisqoleiux dm

DjqiCxtdk-vlttqe-v eeirajxxeriltqieltuqtidjloidjqijltqbirajxxermiEhyqil
bxvixcikx ouiaxeequhlor,idjqkiltqic eeixcichujd,ic o,iloginhayqgoqrr,
d bvehouitx ogidjqinxtegildir ajilitqayeqrr,itxeehayhouitldq,idjldiox
st gqodi ogqtnthdqtinx egihor tqidjqbilokibxtqidjloijqinx egilithxdx r
elgildiKleqixtiJlt.ltgmiDjqkirxxoitqehoz hrjidjhrid tv eqoaqidjx uj,
loginjqoilvx didjtqq-cx tdjriutxno,ivtqlyi s,ilogirqsltldqekiuxilvx d
hoiz qrdixcirqddeqbqodr,idjldihr,ijltqbrm

Loxdjqtisxhodixcighccqtqoaqivqdnqqoidjqibleqilogicqbleqirajxxerihr
rdheeibxtqiajltladqthrdhaixcidjqirqpqrmiRlkikx irdthyqil
Cxtdk-vlttqe-v ee—sxxtigq.he!ileeijhriaxbtlgqriz hdijhbmiV dirdthyqil
bqbvqtixcidjqijltqbirajxxe,ilogijqtiaxbslohxorirnhbiltx ogijqtinhdj
q.qtkidxyqoixciaxoaqto,irxbqdhbqriehouqthouirxioqltijqtilogirxiexou,ilr
djqbrqe.qridxicleeilistqkm


AJLSDQTi89miClrd-ChrjilogiExxrq-Chrjm

Djqilee rhxoidxidjqinlhciloginlhc-sxeqrihoidjqielrdiajlsdqtiv dixoq,
oqaqrrhdldqrirxbqilaax odixcidjqielnrilogitqu eldhxorixcidjqinjleq
chrjqtk,ixcinjhajidjqinlhciblkivqigqqbqgidjqiutlogirkbvxeilogivlguqm

Hdictqz qodekijlssqoridjldinjqoirq.qtleirjhsriltqiat hrhouihoiaxbslok,
linjleqiblkivqirdt ayivkixoqi.qrrqe,idjqoiqralsq,ilogivqicholeekiyheeqg
logialsd tqgivkiloxdjqti.qrrqe;ilogijqtqhoiltqihoghtqadekiaxbsthrqg
blokibhoxtiaxodhouqoahqr,ileeisltdlyhouixcidjhrixoqiutlogicqld tqmiCxt
qplbseq,—lcdqtilinqltkilogisqthex riajlrqilogialsd tqixcilinjleq,idjq
vxgkiblkiuqdiexxrqictxbidjqirjhsivkitqlrxoixcili.hxeqodirdxtb;ilog
gthcdhouicltilnlkidxieqqnltg,ivqitqdlyqoivkilirqaxoginjleqt,injx,ihoil
aleb,iro uekidxnrihdilexourhgq,inhdjx dithryixciehcqixtiehoqmiDj ridjq
bxrdi.qpldhx rilogi.hxeqodighrs dqrinx egixcdqoilthrqivqdnqqoidjq
chrjqtbqo,inqtqidjqtqioxdirxbqinthddqoixti onthddqo,i oh.qtrle,
 oghrs dqgielnilssehalveqidxileeialrqrm

Sqtjlsridjqixoekicxtbleinjlehouiaxgqil djxthwqgivkiequhreldh.q
qoladbqod,inlridjldixciJxeelogmiHdinlrigqatqqgivkidjqiRdldqr-Uqoqtleiho
LmGmi1695miV didjx ujioxixdjqtioldhxoijlriq.qtijlgilokinthddqoinjlehou
eln,ikqdidjqiLbqthaloichrjqtbqoijl.qivqqoidjqhtixnoiequhreldxtrilog
elnkqtrihoidjhriblddqtmiDjqkijl.qistx.hgqgilirkrdqbinjhajicxtidqtrq
axbstqjqorh.qoqrrir tslrrqriF rdhohlo’riSlogqadrilogidjqiVk-elnrixcidjq
AjhoqrqiRxahqdkicxtidjqiR sstqrrhxoixciBqggehouinhdjixdjqtiSqxseq’r
V rhoqrrmiKqr;idjqrqielnribhujdivqiqoutl.qoixoiliZ qqoiLooq’ricltdjhou,
xtidjqivltvixcilijltsxxo,iloginxtoitx ogidjqioqay,irxirbleeiltqidjqkm

HmiLiClrd-Chrjivqexouridxidjqisltdkiclrdidxihdm

HHmiLiExxrq-Chrjihriclhtiulbqicxtilokvxgkinjxialoirxxoqrdialdajihdm

V dinjldiselkridjqibhrajhqcinhdjidjhriblrdqtekiaxgqihridjqilgbhtlveq
vtq.hdkixcihd,injhajioqaqrrhdldqrili.lrdi.xe bqixciaxbbqodlthqridx
qpsx ogihdm

Chtrd:iNjldihriliClrd-Chrj?iLeh.qixtigqlgilichrjihridqajohaleekiclrd,
njqoihdihriaxooqadqginhdjiloixaa shqgirjhsixtivxld,ivkilokibqgh bild
leeiaxodtxeelveqivkidjqixaa slodixtixaa slodr,—liblrd,iloixlt,il
ohoq-hoajialveq,ilidqequtlsjinhtq,ixtilirdtlogixciaxvnqv,ihdihrileeidjq
rlbqmiEhyqnhrqilichrjihridqajohaleekiclrdinjqoihdivqltrilinlhc,ixtilok
xdjqtitqaxuohrqgirkbvxeixcisxrrqrrhxo;irxiexouilridjqisltdkinlhchouihd
selhoekiq.hoaqidjqhtilvhehdkildilokidhbqidxidlyqihdilexourhgq,ilrinqee
lridjqhtihodqodhxoirxidxigxm

Djqrqiltqirahqodhchaiaxbbqodlthqr;iv didjqiaxbbqodlthqrixcidjqinjleqbqo
djqbrqe.qrirxbqdhbqriaxorhrdihoijltginxtgrilogijltgqtiyoxayr—djq
Axyq- sxo-EhddeqdxoixcidjqichrdmiDt q,ilbxouidjqibxtqi sthujdilog
jxoxtlveqinjleqbqoileexnloaqriltqilenlkriblgqicxtisqa ehltialrqr,injqtq
hdinx egivqiloix dtluqx ribxtleihof rdhaqicxtixoqisltdkidxiaelhb
sxrrqrrhxoixcilinjleqistq.hx rekiajlrqgixtiyheeqgivkiloxdjqtisltdkmiV d
xdjqtriltqivkioxibqlorirxirat s ex rm

Rxbqichcdkikqltriluxidjqtqinlrilia thx rialrqixcinjleq-dtx.qtiehdhuldqg
hoiQouelog,injqtqhoidjqiselhodhccrirqdicxtdjidjldilcdqtilijltgiajlrqixc
linjleqihoidjqiOxtdjqtoirqlr;iloginjqoihogqqgidjqki(djqiselhodhccr)ijlg
r aaqqgqgihoijltsxxohouidjqichrj;idjqkinqtqildielrd,idjtx ujisqtheixc
djqhtieh.qr,ixvehuqgidxicxtrlyqioxdixoekidjqhtiehoqr,iv didjqhtivxld
hdrqecmi edhbldqekidjqigqcqoglodri(djqiatqnixciloxdjqtirjhs)ialbqi s
nhdjidjqinjleq,irdt ay,iyheeqg,irqhwqg,ilogicholeekilsstxsthldqgihd
vqcxtqidjqi.qtkiqkqrixcidjqiselhodhccrmiLoginjqoidjxrqigqcqoglodrinqtq
tqbxordtldqginhdj,idjqhtialsdlhoirolssqgijhrichouqtrihoidjqiselhodhccr’
dqqdj,ilogilrr tqgidjqbidjldivkinlkixcigxpxexukidxidjqigqqgijqijlg
gxoq,ijqinx egioxnitqdlhoidjqhtiehoq,ijltsxxor,ilogivxld,injhajijlg
tqblhoqgilddlajqgidxidjqinjleqildidjqidhbqixcidjqirqhw tqmiNjqtqcxtq
djqiselhodhccrioxnir qgicxtidjqitqax.qtkixcidjqi.le qixcidjqhtinjleq,
ehoq,ijltsxxor,ilogivxldm

BtmiQtryhoqinlriax orqeicxtidjqigqcqoglodr;iExtgiQeeqovxtx ujinlridjq
f guqmiHoidjqiax trqixcidjqigqcqoaq,idjqinhddkiQtryhoqinqodixoidx
hee rdtldqijhrisxrhdhxo,ivkilee ghouidxilitqaqodiathbmiaxomialrq,
njqtqhoiliuqodeqblo,ilcdqtihoi.lhoidtkhouidxivthgeqijhrinhcq’r
.hahx roqrr,ijlgildielrdilvlogxoqgijqti sxoidjqirqlrixciehcq;iv diho
djqiax trqixcikqltr,itqsqodhouixcidjldirdqs,ijqihordhd dqgiloiladhxoidx
tqax.qtisxrrqrrhxoixcijqtmiQtryhoqinlrixoidjqixdjqtirhgq;ilogijqidjqo
r ssxtdqgihdivkirlkhou,idjldidjx ujidjqiuqodeqbloijlgixthuholeek
jltsxxoqgidjqielgk,ilogijlgixoaqijlgijqticlrd,ilogixoekivkitqlrxoixc
djqiutqldirdtqrrixcijqtise ouhoui.hahx roqrr,ijlgildielrdilvlogxoqg
jqt;ikqdilvlogxoijqtijqighg,irxidjldirjqivqalbqiliexxrq-chrj;ilog
djqtqcxtqinjqoilir vrqz qodiuqodeqbloitq-jltsxxoqgijqt,idjqielgkidjqo
vqalbqidjldir vrqz qodiuqodeqblo’ristxsqtdk,ilexouinhdjinjldq.qt
jltsxxoibhujdijl.qivqqoicx ogirdhayhouihoijqtm

OxnihoidjqistqrqodialrqiQtryhoqiaxodqogqgidjldidjqiqplbseqrixcidjq
njleqilogidjqielgkinqtqitqahstxaleekihee rdtldh.qixciqlajixdjqtm

Djqrqiseqlghour,ilogidjqiax odqtiseqlghour,ivqhouig ekijqltg,idjqi.qtk
eqltoqgif guqihoirqdidqtbrigqahgqg,idxinhd,—Djldilricxtidjqivxld,ijq
lnltgqgihdidxidjqiselhodhccr,ivqal rqidjqkijlgibqtqekilvlogxoqgihdidx
rl.qidjqhtieh.qr;iv didjldinhdjitqultgidxidjqiaxodtx.qtdqginjleq,
jltsxxor,ilogiehoq,idjqkivqexouqgidxidjqigqcqoglodr;idjqinjleq,ivqal rq
hdinlriliExxrq-Chrjildidjqidhbqixcidjqicholeialsd tq;ilogidjqijltsxxor
logiehoqivqal rqinjqoidjqichrjiblgqixccinhdjidjqb,ihdi(djqichrj)
laz htqgilistxsqtdkihoidjxrqiltdhaeqr;ilogijqoaqilokvxgkinjxilcdqtnltgr
dxxyidjqichrjijlgilithujdidxidjqbmiOxnidjqigqcqoglodrilcdqtnltgridxxy
djqichrj;iqtux,idjqilcxtqrlhgiltdhaeqrinqtqidjqhtrm

Liaxbbxoibloiexxyhouildidjhrigqahrhxoixcidjqi.qtkieqltoqgiF guq,ibhujd
sxrrhvekixvfqadidxihdmiV disex ujqgi sidxidjqisthbltkitxayixcidjq
blddqt,idjqidnxiutqldisthoahseqrielhgigxnoihoidjqidnhoinjlehouielnr
stq.hx rekiz xdqg,ilogilssehqgilogiqe ahgldqgivkiExtgiQeeqovxtx ujiho
djqilvx.qiahdqgialrq;idjqrqidnxielnridx ajhouiClrd-ChrjilogiExxrq-Chrj,
Hirlk,inhee,ixoitqceqadhxo,ivqicx ogidjqic oglbqodlerixcileeij blo
f thrst gqoaq;icxtioxdnhdjrdloghouihdriaxbsehaldqgidtlaqtkixc
ra esd tq,idjqiDqbseqixcidjqiEln,iehyqidjqiDqbseqixcidjqiSjhehrdhoqr,
jlriv didnxistxsridxirdlogixom

Hrihdioxdilirlkhouihoiq.qtkixoq’ribx dj,iSxrrqrrhxoihrijlecixcidjqieln:
djldihr,itqultgeqrrixcijxnidjqidjhouialbqihodxisxrrqrrhxo?iV dixcdqo
sxrrqrrhxoihridjqinjxeqixcidjqielnmiNjldiltqidjqirhoqnrilogirx erixc
T rrhloirqtcrilogiTqs vehaloirel.qriv diClrd-Chrj,injqtqxcisxrrqrrhxo
hridjqinjxeqixcidjqieln?iNjldidxidjqitlslahx rielogextgihridjqinhgxn’r
elrdibhdqiv diliClrd-Chrj?iNjldihrikxogqti ogqdqadqgi.heelho’ribltveq
blorhxoinhdjiligxxt-seldqicxtilinlhc;injldihridjldiv diliClrd-Chrj?
Njldihridjqit hox righrax odinjhajiBxtgqalh,idjqivtxyqt,iuqdrictxbisxxt
Nxqvquxoq,idjqivloyt sd,ixoiliexloidxiyqqsiNxqvquxoq’riclbhekictxb
rdlt.ldhxo;injldihridjldit hox righrax odiv diliClrd-Chrj?iNjldihridjq
LtajvhrjxsixciRl.qrx e’rihoaxbqixci£100,000irqhwqgictxbidjqiralodivtqlg
logiajqqrqixcij ogtqgrixcidjx rlogrixcivtxyqo-vlayqgielvxtqtri(leeir tq
xcijql.qoinhdjx dilokixciRl.qrx e’rijqes)injldihridjldiuexv elt
£100,000iv diliClrd-Chrj?iNjldiltqidjqiG yqixciG ogqt’rijqtqghdltk
dxnorilogijlbeqdriv diClrd-Chrj?iNjldidxidjlditqgx vdqgijltsxxoqqt,
FxjoiV ee,ihrisxxtiHtqelog,iv diliClrd-Chrj?iNjldidxidjldilsxrdxeha
eloaqt,iVtxdjqtiFxoldjlo,ihriDqplriv diliClrd-Chrj?iLogiaxoaqtohouilee
djqrq,ihrioxdiSxrrqrrhxoidjqinjxeqixcidjqieln?

V dihcidjqigxadthoqixciClrd-Chrjivqistqddkiuqoqtleekilssehalveq,idjq
yhogtqgigxadthoqixciExxrq-ChrjihrirdheeibxtqinhgqekirxmiDjldihr
hodqtoldhxoleekilogi oh.qtrleekilssehalveqm

NjldinlriLbqthalihoi1492iv diliExxrq-Chrj,ihoinjhajiAxe bv rirdt ayidjq
Rslohrjirdlogltgivkinlkixcinlhchouihdicxtijhritxkleiblrdqtilog
bhrdtqrr?iNjldinlriSxelogidxidjqiAwlt?iNjldiUtqqaqidxidjqiD ty?iNjld
HoghlidxiQouelog?iNjldildielrdinheeiBqphaxivqidxidjqi ohdqgiRdldqr?iLee
Exxrq-Chrjm

NjldiltqidjqiThujdrixciBloilogidjqiEhvqtdhqrixcidjqiNxtegiv d
Exxrq-Chrj?iNjldileeibqo’ribhogrilogixshohxoriv diExxrq-Chrj?iNjldihr
djqisthoahseqixcitqehuhx rivqehqcihoidjqbiv diliExxrq-Chrj?iNjldidxidjq
xrdqodldhx rirb uuehoui.qtvlehrdriltqidjqidjx ujdrixcidjhoyqtriv d
Exxrq-Chrj?iNjldihridjqiutqldiuexvqihdrqeciv diliExxrq-Chrj?iLoginjld
ltqikx ,itqlgqt,iv diliExxrq-ChrjilogiliClrd-Chrj,idxx?


AJLSDQTi90miJqlgrixtiDlherm

“Gqivleqoli.qtxir cchahd,irhitqpijlvqldials d,iqditquholial glbm”
_Vtladxo,iemi3,iami3m_

EldhoictxbidjqivxxyrixcidjqiElnrixciQouelog,injhajidlyqoilexouinhdjidjq
axodqpd,ibqlor,idjldixcileeinjleqrialsd tqgivkilokvxgkixoidjqiaxlrdixc
djldielog,idjqiYhou,ilriJxoxtltkiUtlogiJltsxxoqqt,ib rdijl.qidjqijqlg,
logidjqiZ qqoivqitqrsqadc eekistqrqodqginhdjidjqidlhemiLigh.hrhxo
njhaj,ihoidjqinjleq,ihrib ajiehyqijle.houiloilsseq;idjqtqihriox
hodqtbqghldqitqblhogqtmiOxnilridjhrieln,i ogqtilibxghchqgicxtb,ihridx
djhriglkihoicxtaqihoiQouelog;ilogilrihdixccqtrihoi.lthx ritqrsqadril
rdtlouqiloxblekidx ajhouidjqiuqoqtleielnixciClrdilogiExxrq-Chrj,ihdihr
jqtqidtqldqgixcihoilirqsltldqiajlsdqt,ixoidjqirlbqiax tdqx risthoahseq
djldistxbsdridjqiQouehrjitlhenlkridxivqildidjqiqpsqorqixcilirqsltldq
alt,irsqahleekitqrqt.qgicxtidjqilaaxbbxgldhxoixcitxkledkmiHoidjqichtrd
selaq,ihoia thx ristxxcixcidjqicladidjldidjqilvx.q-bqodhxoqgielnihr
rdheeihoicxtaq,iHistxaqqgidxielkivqcxtqikx iliahta brdloaqidjld
jlssqoqginhdjhoidjqielrdidnxikqltrm

HdirqqbridjldirxbqijxoqrdiblthoqtrixciGx.qt,ixtiRlognhaj,ixtirxbqixoq
xcidjqiAhoz qiSxtdr,ijlgilcdqtilijltgiajlrqir aaqqgqgihoiyheehouilog
vqlajhouilichoqinjleqinjhajidjqkijlgixthuholeekigqrathqgilcltixccictxb
djqirjxtqmiOxnidjqiAhoz qiSxtdriltqisltdhleekixtirxbqjxni ogqtidjq
f thrghadhxoixcilirxtdixcisxehaqbloixtivqlgeq,ialeeqgiliExtgiNltgqom
Jxeghouidjqixcchaqightqadekictxbidjqiatxno,iHivqehq.q,ileeidjqitxkle
qbxe bqodrihoahgqodidxidjqiAhoz qiSxtdidqtthdxthqrivqaxbqivkilrrhuobqod
jhrmiVkirxbqinthdqtridjhrixcchaqihrialeeqgilirhoqa tqmiV dioxdirxm
Vqal rqidjqiExtgiNltgqoihriv rhekiqbsexkqgildidhbqrihoicxvvhouijhr
sqtz hrhdqr;injhajiltqijhriajhqcekivki.htd qixcidjldirlbqicxvvhouixc
djqbm

Oxninjqoidjqrqisxxtir o-v todiblthoqtr,ivltq-cxxdqg,iloginhdjidjqht
dtxnrqtritxeeqgijhuji sixoidjqhtiqqekiequr,ijlginqlthekijl eqgidjqht
cldichrjijhujilogigtk,istxbhrhouidjqbrqe.qriliuxxgi£150ictxbidjq
stqahx rixheilogivxoq;ilogihoiclodlrkirhsshouitltqidqlinhdjidjqht
nh.qr,ilogiuxxgileqinhdjidjqhtiatxohqr,i sxoidjqirdtqoudjixcidjqht
tqrsqadh.qirjltqr;i sirdqsrili.qtkieqltoqgilogibxrdiAjthrdhloilog
ajlthdlveqiuqodeqblo,inhdjiliaxskixciVelayrdxoqi ogqtijhriltb;ilog
elkhouihdi sxoidjqinjleq’rijqlg,ijqirlkr—“Jlogrixcc!idjhrichrj,ibk
blrdqtr,ihriliClrd-ChrjmiHirqhwqihdilridjqiExtgiNltgqo’rm”i sxoidjhr
djqisxxtiblthoqtrihoidjqhtitqrsqadc eiaxordqtoldhxo—rxidt ek
Qouehrj—yoxnhouioxdinjldidxirlk,icleeidxi.huxtx rekiratldajhouidjqht
jqlgrileeitx og;ibqlonjheqit qc eekiueloahouictxbidjqinjleqidxidjq
rdtlouqtmiV didjldighgihoioxnhrqibqogidjqiblddqt,ixtildileeirxcdqoidjq
jltgijqltdixcidjqieqltoqgiuqodeqbloinhdjidjqiaxskixciVelayrdxoqmiLd
eqoudjixoqixcidjqb,ilcdqtiexouiratldajhouilvx dicxtijhrihgqlr,iblgq
vxegidxirsqly,

“Seqlrq,irht,injxihridjqiExtgiNltgqo?”

“DjqiG yqm”

“V didjqig yqijlgioxdjhouidxigxinhdjidlyhouidjhrichrj?”

“Hdihrijhrm”

“Nqijl.qivqqoildiutqldidtx veq,ilogisqthe,ilogirxbqiqpsqorq,ilogihrilee
djldidxiuxidxidjqiG yq’rivqoqchd;inqiuqddhouioxdjhouildileeicxtix t
slhoriv dix tivehrdqtr?”

“Hdihrijhrm”

“HridjqiG yqirxi.qtkisxxtilridxivqicxtaqgidxidjhrigqrsqtldqibxgqixc
uqddhouilieh.qehjxxg?”

“Hdihrijhrm”

“Hidjx ujdidxitqehq.qibkixegivqg-thggqoibxdjqtivkisltdixcibkirjltqixc
djhrinjleqm”

“Hdihrijhrm”

“Nxo’didjqiG yqivqiaxodqodinhdjiliz ltdqtixtilijlec?”

“Hdihrijhrm”

Hoilinxtg,idjqinjleqinlrirqhwqgilogirxeg,ilogijhriUtlaqidjqiG yqixc
Nqeehoudxoitqaqh.qgidjqibxoqkmiDjhoyhouidjldi.hqnqgihoirxbqisltdha elt
ehujdr,idjqialrqibhujdivkilivltqisxrrhvhehdkihoirxbqirbleeigqutqqivq
gqqbqg,i ogqtidjqiahta brdloaqr,ilitldjqtijltgixoq,iloijxoqrdiaeqtukblo
xcidjqidxnoitqrsqadc eekilggtqrrqgilioxdqidxijhriUtlaq,ivquuhouijhbidx
dlyqidjqialrqixcidjxrqi ocxtd oldqiblthoqtrihodxic eeiaxorhgqtldhxomiDx
njhajibkiExtgiG yqihoir vrdloaqitqsehqgi(vxdjieqddqtrinqtqis vehrjqg)
djldijqijlgiletqlgkigxoqirx,ilogitqaqh.qgidjqibxoqk,iloginx egivq
xvehuqgidxidjqitq.qtqogiuqodeqbloihcicxtidjqic d tqijqi(djqitq.qtqog
uqodeqblo)inx egigqaehoqibqggehouinhdjixdjqtisqxseq’riv rhoqrrmiHridjhr
djqirdheeibhehdlodixegiblo,irdloghouildidjqiaxtoqtrixcidjqidjtqq
yhougxbr,ixoileeijlogriaxqtahouilebrixcivquultr?

HdinheeitqlghekivqirqqoidjldihoidjhrialrqidjqileequqgithujdixcidjqiG yq
dxidjqinjleqinlriligqequldqgixoqictxbidjqiRx.qtqhuomiNqib rdioqqgr
hoz htqidjqoixoinjldisthoahseqidjqiRx.qtqhuoihrixthuholeekiho.qrdqg
nhdjidjldithujdmiDjqielnihdrqecijlriletqlgkivqqoirqdicxtdjmiV diSexngxo
uh.qri ridjqitqlrxoicxtihdmiRlkriSexngxo,idjqinjleqirxial ujdivqexour
dxidjqiYhouilogiZ qqo,i“vqal rqixcihdrir sqthxtiqpaqeeqoaqm”iLogivkidjq
rx ogqrdiaxbbqodldxtridjhrijlriq.qtivqqoijqegiliaxuqodiltu bqodihoir aj
blddqtrm

V dinjkirjx egidjqiYhouijl.qidjqijqlg,ilogidjqiZ qqoidjqidlhe?iLitqlrxo
cxtidjld,ikqielnkqtr!

Hoijhridtqldhrqixoi“Z qqo-Uxeg,”ixtiZ qqo-shobxoqk,iloixegiYhou’riVqoaj
l djxt,ixoqiNheehlbiStkooq,idj righrax trqdj:i“KqidlheihrikqiZ qqo’r,
djldikqiZ qqo’rinltgtxvqiblkivqir ssehqginhdjikqinjleqvxoqm”iOxnidjhr
nlrinthddqoildilidhbqinjqoidjqivelayiehbvqtivxoqixcidjqiUtqqoelogixt
Thujdinjleqinlrieltuqeki rqgihoielghqr’ivxghaqrmiV didjhrirlbqivxoqihr
oxdihoidjqidlhe;ihdihrihoidjqijqlg,injhajihrilirlgibhrdlyqicxtil
rlulahx rielnkqtiehyqiStkooqmiV dihridjqiZ qqoilibqtblhg,idxivq
stqrqodqginhdjilidlhe?iLoileequxthaleibqlohouiblkie tyijqtqm

DjqtqiltqidnxitxkleichrjirxirdkeqgivkidjqiQouehrjielninthdqtr—djqinjleq
logidjqird tuqxo;ivxdjitxkleistxsqtdki ogqtiaqtdlhoiehbhdldhxor,ilog
oxbholeekir ssekhouidjqidqodjivtloajixcidjqiatxno’rixtgholtkitq.qo qmiH
yoxnioxdidjldilokixdjqtil djxtijlrijhodqgixcidjqiblddqt;iv divk
hocqtqoaqihdirqqbridxibqidjldidjqird tuqxoib rdivqigh.hgqgihoidjqirlbq
nlkilridjqinjleq,idjqiYhouitqaqh.houidjqijhujekigqorqilogiqelrdhaijqlg
sqa ehltidxidjldichrj,injhaj,irkbvxehaleekitqultgqg,iblkisxrrhvekivq
j bxtx rekiutx ogqgi sxoirxbqistqr bqgiaxouqohlehdkmiLogidj ridjqtq
rqqbrilitqlrxoihoileeidjhour,iq.qoihoielnm


AJLSDQTi91miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqiTxrq-V gm

“Hoi.lhoihdinlridxitlyqicxtiLbvqtuthqrqihoidjqisl oajixcidjhr
Eq.hldjlo,ihor ccqtlveqicqdxtigqokhouioxdihoz htkm”i_RhtiDmiVtxnoq,
.mQm_

Hdinlrilinqqyixtidnxilcdqtidjqielrdinjlehouiraqoqitqax odqg,iloginjqo
nqinqtqirexnekirlhehouix.qtilireqqsk,i.lsxtk,ibhg-glkirql,idjldidjq
blokioxrqrixoidjqiSqz xg’rigqayistx.qgibxtqi.huhelodighrax.qtqtridjlo
djqidjtqqislhtrixciqkqrilexcdmiLisqa ehltilogioxdi.qtkiseqlrlodirbqee
nlrirbqedihoidjqirqlm

“Hinheeivqdirxbqdjhouioxn,”irlhgiRd vv,i“djldirxbqnjqtqijqtqlvx driltq
rxbqixcidjxrqigt uuqginjleqrinqidhayeqgidjqixdjqtiglkmiHidjx ujdidjqk
nx egiyqqei sivqcxtqiexoum”

Stqrqodek,idjqi.lsxtrihoilg.loaqirehgilrhgq;ilogidjqtqihoidjqighrdloaq
elkilirjhs,injxrqic teqgirlherivqdxyqoqgidjldirxbqirxtdixcinjleqib rd
vqilexourhgqmiLrinqiuehgqgioqltqt,idjqirdtlouqtirjxnqgiCtqoajiaxex tr
ctxbijhrisqly;ilogivkidjqiqggkhouiaex gixci. ed tqirql-cxneidjld
ahtaeqg,ilogijx.qtqg,ilogirnxxsqgiltx ogijhb,ihdinlriselhoidjldidjq
njleqilexourhgqib rdivqinjldidjqichrjqtbqoialeeilivelrdqginjleq,idjld
hr,ilinjleqidjldijlrighqgi obxeqrdqgixoidjqirql,ilogirxicexldqgilo
 olsstxsthldqgiaxtsrqmiHdiblkinqeeivqiaxoaqh.qg,injldiloi orl.xtkixgxt
r ajiliblrrib rdiqpjleq;inxtrqidjloiloiLrrkthloiahdkihoidjqiselu q,
njqoidjqieh.houiltqihoaxbsqdqodidxiv tkidjqigqsltdqgmiRxihodxeqtlveq
hogqqgihrihditqultgqgivkirxbq,idjldioxia shghdkiax egisqtr lgqidjqbidx
bxxtilexourhgqixcihdmiKqdiltqidjqtqidjxrqinjxinheeirdheeigxihd;
oxdnhdjrdloghouidjqicladidjldidjqixheixvdlhoqgictxbir ajir vfqadrihrixc
li.qtkihocqthxtiz lehdk,ilogivkioxibqlorixcidjqiold tqixc
lddlt-xc-txrqm

Axbhouirdheeioqltqtinhdjidjqiqpshthouivtqqwq,inqirlnidjldidjqiCtqoajblo
jlgilirqaxoginjleqilexourhgq;ilogidjhrirqaxoginjleqirqqbqgiq.qoibxtqixc
lioxrqulkidjloidjqichtrdmiHoidt dj,ihdid toqgix didxivqixoqixcidjxrq
stxveqbldhaleinjleqridjldirqqbidxigtki silogighqinhdjilirxtdixc
stxghuhx rigkrsqsrhl,ixtihoghuqrdhxo;ieql.houidjqhtigqc oadivxghqr
lebxrdiqodhtqekivloyt sdixcilokdjhouiehyqixhemiOq.qtdjqeqrr,ihoidjq
stxsqtiselaqinqirjleeirqqidjldioxiyoxnhouichrjqtbloinheeiq.qtid toi s
jhrioxrqildir ajilinjleqilridjhr,ijxnq.qtib ajijqiblkirj oivelrdqg
njleqrihoiuqoqtlem

DjqiSqz xgijlgioxnirnqsdirxiohujidxidjqirdtlouqt,idjldiRd vvi.xnqgijq
tqaxuohrqgijhria ddhouirslgq-sxeqiqodloueqgihoidjqiehoqridjldinqtq
yoxddqgitx ogidjqidlheixcixoqixcidjqrqinjleqrm

“Djqtq’rilistqddkicqeexn,ioxn,”ijqivlodqthouekiel ujqg,irdloghouihoidjq
rjhs’rivxnr,i“djqtq’riliflayleicxtikq!iHinqeeiyoxnidjldidjqrqiAtlssxqr
xciCtqoajbqoiltqiv disxxtigq.herihoidjqichrjqtk;irxbqdhbqriexnqthou
djqhtivxldricxtivtqlyqtr,ibhrdlyhouidjqbicxtiRsqtbiNjleqirsx dr;ikqr,
logirxbqdhbqrirlhehouictxbidjqhtisxtdinhdjidjqhtijxegic eeixcivxpqrixc
dleexnialogeqr,ilogialrqrixciro ccqtr,icxtqrqqhouidjldileeidjqixheidjqk
nheeiuqdinxo’divqiqox ujidxighsidjqiAlsdlho’rinhayihodx;ilkq,inqilee
yoxnidjqrqidjhour;iv diexxyikq,ijqtq’riliAtlssxidjldihriaxodqodinhdj
x tieql.hour,idjqigt uuqginjleqidjqtq,iHibqlo;ilkq,ilogihriaxodqodidxx
nhdjiratlshouidjqigtkivxoqrixcidjldixdjqtistqahx richrjijqijlridjqtqm
Sxxtigq.he!iHirlk,islrritx ogilijld,irxbqixoq,ilogieqd’riblyqijhbil
stqrqodixciliehddeqixheicxtigqltiajlthdk’rirlyqmiCxtinjldixheijq’eeiuqd
ctxbidjldigt uuqginjleqidjqtq,inx ego’divqichdidxiv toihoiliflhe;iox,
oxdihoiliaxogqboqgiaqeemiLogilricxtidjqixdjqtinjleq,injk,iH’eeilutqqidx
uqdibxtqixheivkiajxsshoui silogidtkhouix didjqrqidjtqqiblrdrixcix tr,
djloijq’eeiuqdictxbidjldiv ogeqixcivxoqr;idjx uj,ioxnidjldiHidjhoyixc
hd,ihdiblkiaxodlhoirxbqdjhouinxtdjiliuxxgigqleibxtqidjloixhe;ikqr,
lbvqtuthrmiHinxogqtioxnihcix tixegibloijlridjx ujdixcidjldmiHd’rinxtdj
dtkhoumiKqr,iH’bicxtihd;”ilogirxirlkhouijqirdltdqgicxtidjq
z ltdqt-gqaym

Vkidjhridhbqidjqiclhodilhtijlgivqaxbqiliaxbseqdqialeb;irxidjldinjqdjqt
xtiox,idjqiSqz xginlrioxniclhtekiqodtlssqgihoidjqirbqee,inhdjioxijxsq
xciqralshouiqpaqsdivkihdrivtqqwhoui silulhomiHrr houictxbidjqialvho,
Rd vvioxnialeeqgijhrivxld’riatqn,ilogis eeqgixccicxtidjqirdtlouqtm
Gtlnhouilatxrrijqtivxn,ijqisqtaqh.qgidjldihoilaaxtgloaqinhdjidjq
cloahc eiCtqoajidlrdq,idjqi ssqtisltdixcijqtirdqb-shqaqinlrialt.qgiho
djqiehyqoqrrixcilij uqigtxxshouirdley,inlrislhodqgiutqqo,ilogicxt
djxtorijlgiaxssqtirshyqristxfqadhouictxbihdijqtqilogidjqtq;idjqinjxeq
dqtbholdhouihoilirkbbqdthaleicxegqgiv evixcilivthujditqgiaxex tmi sxo
jqtijqlgivxltgr,ihoieltuqiuhedieqddqtr,ijqitqlgi“Vx dxoigq
Txrq,”—Txrq-v ddxo,ixtiTxrq-v g;ilogidjhrinlridjqitxblodhaiolbqixcidjhr
ltxbldhairjhsm

Djx ujiRd vvighgioxdi ogqtrdlogidjqi_Vx dxo_isltdixcidjqihorathsdhxo,
kqdidjqinxtgi_txrq_,ilogidjqiv evx richu tq-jqlgis didxuqdjqt,
r cchahqodekiqpselhoqgidjqinjxeqidxijhbm

“Linxxgqoitxrq-v g,iqj?”ijqiathqginhdjijhrijlogidxijhrioxrq,i“djldinhee
gxi.qtkinqee;iv dijxniehyqileeiatqldhxoihdirbqeer!”

Oxnihoixtgqtidxijxegightqadiaxbb ohaldhxoinhdjidjqisqxseqixoigqay,ijq
jlgidxis eeitx ogidjqivxnridxidjqirdltvxltgirhgq,ilogidj riaxbqiaexrq
dxidjqivelrdqginjleq;ilogirxidleyix.qtihdm

Ltth.qgidjqoildidjhrirsxd,inhdjixoqijlogirdheeidxijhrioxrq,ijq
vlneqg—“Vx dxo-gq-Txrq,iljxk!iltqidjqtqilokixcikx iVx dxo-gq-Txrqridjld
rsqlyiQouehrj?”

“Kqr,”itqfxhoqgiliU qtorqk-bloictxbidjqiv enltyr,injxid toqgix didxivq
djqiajhqc-bldqm

“Nqee,idjqo,ibkiVx dxo-gq-Txrq-v g,ijl.qikx irqqoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”

“_Njld_injleq?”

“Djqi_Njhdq_iNjleq—liRsqtbiNjleq—BxvkiGhay,ijl.qikqirqqoijhb?

“Oq.qtijqltgixcir ajilinjleqmiAlajlexdiVeloajq!iNjhdqiNjleq—oxm”

“.qtkiuxxg,idjqo;iuxxgivkqioxn,ilogiH’eeialeeilulhoihoilibho dqm”

Djqoitlshgekis eehouivlayidxnltgridjqiSqz xg,ilogirqqhouiLjlvieqlohou
x.qtidjqiz ltdqt-gqayitlheilnlhdhouijhritqsxtd,ijqibx egqgijhridnx
jlogrihodxilidt bsqdilogirjx dqg—“Ox,iRht!iOx!”i sxoinjhajiLjlv
tqdhtqg,ilogiRd vvitqd toqgidxidjqiCtqoajblom

Jqioxnisqtaqh.qgidjldidjqiU qtorqk-blo,injxijlgif rdiuxdihodxidjq
ajlhor,iloginlri rhouilia ddhou-rslgq,ijlgire ouijhrioxrqihoilirxtdixc
vlum

“Njld’ridjqiblddqtinhdjikx tioxrq,idjqtq?”irlhgiRd vvmi“Vtxyqihd?”

“Hinhrjihdinlrivtxyqo,ixtidjldiHighgo’dijl.qilokioxrqildilee!”ilornqtqg
djqiU qtorqk-blo,injxighgioxdirqqbidxitqehrjidjqifxvijqinlrildi.qtk
b ajmi“V dinjldiltqikx ijxeghoui_kx tr_icxt?”

“Xj,ioxdjhou!iHd’rilinlpioxrq;iHijl.qidxijxegihdixomiChoqiglk,ilho’d
hd?iLhtitldjqtiultgqook,iHirjx egirlk;idjtxni riliv oajixcisxrhqr,inhee
kq,iVx dxo-gq-Txrq?”

“Njldihoidjqigq.he’riolbqigxikx inlodijqtq?”itxltqgidjqiU qtorqkblo,
cekhouihodxilir ggqoislrrhxom

“Xj!iyqqsiaxxe—axxe?ikqr,idjld’ridjqinxtg!injkigxo’dikx islayidjxrq
njleqrihoihaqinjheqikx ’tqinxtyhouildi’qb?iV difxyhouilrhgq,idjx uj;igx
kx iyoxn,iTxrq-v g,idjldihd’rileeioxorqorqidtkhouidxiuqdilokixheix dixc
r ajinjleqr?iLricxtidjldigthqgi sixoq,idjqtq,ijqijlro’diliuheeihoijhr
njxeqialtalrqm”

“Hiyoxnidjldinqeeiqox uj;iv d,ig’kqirqq,idjqiAlsdlhoijqtqinxo’divqehq.q
hd;idjhrihrijhrichtrdi.xkluq;ijqinlriliAxexuoqiblo clad tqtivqcxtqmiV d
axbqilvxltg,ilogiblkjlsijq’eeivqehq.qikx ,ihcijqinxo’dibq;ilogirxiH’ee
uqdix dixcidjhrightdkiratlsqm”

“Lokdjhouidxixvehuqikq,ibkirnqqdilogiseqlrlodicqeexn,”itqfxhoqgiRd vv,
loginhdjidjldijqirxxoibx odqgidxidjqigqaymiDjqtqiliz qqtiraqoq
stqrqodqgihdrqecmiDjqirlhextr,ihoidlrrqeeqgialsrixcitqginxtrdqg,inqtq
uqddhouidjqijql.kidlayeqrihoitqlghoqrricxtidjqinjleqrmiV didjqkinxtyqg
tldjqtirexnilogidleyqgi.qtkiclrd,ilogirqqbqgihoilokdjhouiv diliuxxg
j bxtmiLeeidjqhtioxrqri snltgekistxfqadqgictxbidjqhticlaqriehyqirxiblok
fhv-vxxbrmiOxnilogidjqoislhtrixcidjqbinx egigtxsidjqhtinxty,ilogit oi s
dxidjqiblrd-jqlgidxiuqdirxbqictqrjilhtmiRxbqidjhoyhouidjqkinx egialdaj
djqiselu q,ighssqgixly bihoiaxle-dlt,ilogildihodqt.lerijqegihdidxidjqht
oxrdthermiXdjqtrijl.houivtxyqoidjqirdqbrixcidjqhtishsqrilebxrdirjxtd
xccildidjqivxne,inqtqi.huxtx rekis cchouidxvlaax-rbxyq,irxidjldihd
axordlodekicheeqgidjqhtixecladxthqrm

Rd vvinlrirdt ayivkilirjxnqtixcix dathqrilogiloldjqblristxaqqghouictxb
djqiAlsdlho’ritx og-jx rqilvlcd;ilogiexxyhouihoidjldightqadhxoirlnil
chqtkiclaqidjt rdictxbivqjhogidjqigxxt,injhajinlrijqegilfltictxb
nhdjhomiDjhrinlridjqidxtbqodqgir tuqxo,injx,ilcdqtihoi.lho
tqbxordtldhouilulhordidjqistxaqqghourixcidjqiglk,ijlgivqdlyqoijhbrqec
dxidjqiAlsdlho’ritx og-jx rqi(_alvhoqd_ijqialeeqgihd)idxil.xhgidjq
sqrd;iv dirdhee,iax egioxdijqesikqeehouix dijhriqodtqldhqrilog
hoghuoldhxorildidhbqrm

Bltyhouileeidjhr,iRd vviltu qginqeeicxtijhrirajqbq,ilogid tohouidxidjq
U qtorqk-bloijlgiliehddeqiajldinhdjijhb,ig thouinjhajidjqirdtlouqtibldq
qpstqrrqgijhrigqdqrdldhxoixcijhriAlsdlhoilriliaxoaqhdqgihuoxtlb r,injx
jlgivtx ujdidjqbileeihodxirxi orl.xtkilogi ostxchdlveqilishayeqm
Rx oghouijhbialtqc eek,iRd vvic tdjqtisqtaqh.qgidjldidjqiU qtorqk-blo
jlgioxdidjqirehujdqrdir rshahxoiaxoaqtohouidjqilbvqtuthrmiJqidjqtqcxtq
jqegijhrisqlaqixoidjldijqlg,iv dixdjqtnhrqinlriz hdqictloyilog
axochgqodhleinhdjijhb,irxidjldidjqidnxiz hayekiaxoaxadqgiliehddeqiselo
cxtivxdjiahta b.qodhouilogirldhthwhouidjqiAlsdlho,inhdjx dijhrildilee
gtqlbhouixcighrdt rdhouidjqhtirhoaqthdkmiLaaxtghouidxidjhriehddeqiselo
xcidjqhtr,idjqiU qtorqk-blo,i ogqtiax.qtixciloihodqtstqdqt’rixcchaq,
nlridxidqeeidjqiAlsdlhoinjldijqiseqlrqg,iv dilriaxbhouictxbiRd vv;ilog
lricxtiRd vv,ijqinlridxi ddqtilokioxorqorqidjldirjx egiaxbqi ssqtbxrd
hoijhbig thouidjqihodqt.hqnm

Vkidjhridhbqidjqhtigqrdhoqgi.hadhbilssqltqgictxbijhrialvhomiJqinlril
rbleeilogiglty,iv ditldjqtigqehaldqiexxyhouibloicxtilirql-alsdlho,inhdj
eltuqinjhryqtrilogibx rdlajq,ijxnq.qt;iloginxtqilitqgiaxddxoi.qe.qd
.qrdinhdjinldaj-rqlerildijhrirhgqmiDxidjhriuqodeqblo,iRd vvinlrioxn
sxehdqekihodtxg aqgivkidjqiU qtorqk-blo,injxildixoaqixrdqodldhx rekis d
xoidjqilrsqadixcihodqtstqdhouivqdnqqoidjqbm

“NjldirjleeiHirlkidxijhbichtrd?”irlhgijqm

“Njk,”irlhgiRd vv,iqkqhouidjqi.qe.qdi.qrdilogidjqinldajilogirqler,i“kx 
blkilrinqeeivquhoivkidqeehouijhbidjldijqiexxyrilirxtdixcivlvkhrjidxibq,
djx ujiHigxo’distqdqogidxivqilif guqm”

“Jqirlkr,iBxorhq t,”irlhgidjqiU qtorqk-blo,ihoiCtqoaj,id tohouidxijhr
alsdlho,i“djldixoekikqrdqtglkijhrirjhsirsxyqili.qrrqe,injxrqialsdlho
logiajhqc-bldq,inhdjirhpirlhextr,ijlgileeighqgixcilicq.qtial ujdictxbil
velrdqginjleqidjqkijlgivtx ujdilexourhgqm”

 sxoidjhridjqialsdlhoirdltdqg,ilogiqluqtekigqrhtqgidxiyoxnibxtqm

“Njldioxn?”irlhgidjqiU qtorqk-bloidxiRd vvm

“Njk,irhoaqijqidlyqrihdirxiqlrk,idqeeijhbidjldioxniHijl.qiqkqgijhb
altqc eek,iH’biz hdqiaqtdlhoidjldijq’rioxibxtqichdidxiaxbblogil
njleq-rjhsidjloiliRdmiFluxibxoyqkmiHoiclad,idqeeijhbictxbibqijq’ril
vlvxxom”

“Jqi.xnrilogigqaeltqr,iBxorhq t,idjldidjqixdjqtinjleq,idjqigthqgixoq,
hricltibxtqigqlgekidjloidjqivelrdqgixoq;ihoichoq,iBxorhq t,ijqiaxof tqr
 r,ilrinqi.le qix tieh.qr,idxia diexxrqictxbidjqrqichrjm”

Hordlodekidjqialsdlhoitloicxtnltg,ilogihoiliex gi.xhaqiaxbblogqgijhr
atqnidxigqrhrdictxbijxhrdhouidjqia ddhou-dlayeqr,ilogildixoaqialrd
exxrqidjqialveqrilogiajlhoriaxochohouidjqinjleqridxidjqirjhsm

“Njldioxn?”irlhgidjqiU qtorqk-blo,injqoidjqiAlsdlhoijlgitqd toqgidx
djqbm

“Njk,ieqdibqirqq;ikqr,ikx iblkilrinqeeidqeeijhbioxnidjld—djld—hoiclad,
dqeeijhbiH’.qighggeqgijhb,ilogi(lrhgqidxijhbrqec)isqtjlsrirxbqvxgk
qerqm”

“Jqirlkr,iBxorhq t,idjldijq’ri.qtkijlsskidxijl.qivqqoixcilokirqt.haqidx
 rm”

Jqlthouidjhr,idjqialsdlhoi.xnqgidjldidjqkinqtqidjqiutldqc eisltdhqr
(bqlohouijhbrqecilogibldq)ilogiaxoae gqgivkiho.hdhouiRd vvigxnoihodx
jhrialvhoidxigthoyilivxddeqixciVxtgql pm

“Jqinlodrikx idxidlyqiliuelrrixcinhoqinhdjijhb,”irlhgidjqihodqtstqdqtm

“Djloyijhbijqltdhek;iv didqeeijhbihd’rilulhordibkisthoahseqridxigthoy
nhdjidjqibloiH’.qighggeqgmiHoiclad,idqeeijhbiHib rdiuxm”

“Jqirlkr,iBxorhq t,idjldijhristhoahseqrinxo’dilgbhdixcijhrigthoyhou;
v didjldihciBxorhq tinlodridxieh.qiloxdjqtiglkidxigthoy,idjqoiBxorhq t
jlgivqrdigtxsileeicx tivxldr,ilogis eeidjqirjhsilnlkictxbidjqrqinjleqr,
cxtihd’rirxialebidjqkinxo’digthcdm”

VkidjhridhbqiRd vvinlrix.qtidjqirhgq,ilogiuqddhouihodxijhrivxld,ijlheqg
djqiU qtorqk-bloidxidjhriqccqad,—djldijl.houiliexouidxn-ehoqihoijhr
vxld,ijqinx egigxinjldijqiax egidxijqesidjqb,ivkis eehouix didjq
ehujdqtinjleqixcidjqidnxictxbidjqirjhs’rirhgqmiNjheqidjqiCtqoajblo’r
vxldr,idjqo,inqtqiqouluqgihoidxnhouidjqirjhsixoqinlk,iRd vv
vqoq.xeqodekidxnqgilnlkildijhrinjleqidjqixdjqtinlk,ixrdqodldhx rek
relayhouix dilibxrdi o r leekiexouidxn-ehoqm

Stqrqodekilivtqqwqirstloui s;iRd vvicqhuoqgidxialrdixccictxbidjqinjleq;
jxhrdhouijhrivxldr,idjqiCtqoajbloirxxoihoatqlrqgijhrighrdloaq,injheq
djqiSqz xgirehgihoivqdnqqoijhbilogiRd vv’rinjleqmiNjqtq sxoiRd vv
z hayekis eeqgidxidjqicexldhouivxgk,ilogijlhehouidjqiSqz xgidxiuh.q
oxdhaqixcijhrihodqodhxor,ildixoaqistxaqqgqgidxitqlsidjqict hdixcijhr
 othujdqx ria oohoumiRqhwhouijhrirjltsivxld-rslgq,ijqiaxbbqoaqgilo
qpal.ldhxoihoidjqivxgk,iliehddeqivqjhogidjqirhgqichomiKx inx egilebxrd
jl.qidjx ujdijqinlrighuuhouiliaqeeltidjqtqihoidjqirql;iloginjqoild
eqoudjijhrirslgqirdt ayilulhordidjqiul odithvr,ihdinlriehyqid tohoui s
xegiTxbloidheqrilogisxddqtkiv thqgihoicldiQouehrjiexlbmiJhrivxld’riatqn
nqtqileeihoijhujiqpahdqbqod,iqluqtekijqeshouidjqhtiajhqc,ilogiexxyhou
lrilophx rilriuxeg-j odqtrm

Logileeidjqidhbqio bvqteqrricxnerinqtqigh.hou,ilogig ayhou,ilog
ratqlbhou,ilogikqeehou,ilogichujdhouiltx ogidjqbmiRd vvinlrivquhoohou
dxiexxyighrlssxhodqg,iqrsqahleekilridjqijxtthveqioxrqulkihoatqlrqg,
njqoir ggqoekictxbix didjqi.qtkijqltdixcidjhriselu q,idjqtqirdxeqil
clhodirdtqlbixcisqtc bq,injhajicexnqgidjtx ujidjqidhgqixcivlgirbqeer
nhdjx divqhouilvrxtvqgivkihd,ilrixoqith.qtinheeicexnihodxilogidjqo
lexouinhdjiloxdjqt,inhdjx dildileeiveqoghouinhdjihdicxtilidhbqm

“Hijl.qihd,iHijl.qihd,”iathqgiRd vv,inhdjigqehujd,irdthyhouirxbqdjhou
hoidjqir vdqttloqloitquhxor,i“lis trq!ilis trq!”

Gtxsshouijhrirslgq,ijqidjt rdivxdjijlogriho,ilogigtqnix dijlogc erixc
rxbqdjhouidjldiexxyqgiehyqithsqiNhogrxtirxls,ixtithajibxddeqgixeg
ajqqrq;i.qtki oad x rilogirl.xtkinhdjlemiKx ibhujdiqlrhekigqodihdinhdj
kx tidj bv;ihdihrixcilij qivqdnqqoikqeexnilogilrjiaxex tmiLogidjhr,
uxxgicthqogr,ihrilbvqtuthr,inxtdjiliuxegiu hoqliloix oaqidxilok
gt uuhrdmiRxbqirhpijlogc erinqtqixvdlhoqg;iv dibxtqinlri ol.xhglvek
exrdihoidjqirql,ilogirdheeibxtq,isqtjlsr,ibhujdijl.qivqqoirqa tqginqtq
hdioxdicxtihbsldhqodiLjlv’riex giaxbblogidxiRd vvidxigqrhrd,ilogiaxbq
xoivxltg,iqerqidjqirjhsinx egivhgidjqbiuxxgivkqm


AJLSDQTi92miLbvqtuthrm

Oxnidjhrilbvqtuthrihrili.qtkia thx rir vrdloaq,ilogirxihbsxtdlodilrilo
ltdhaeqixciaxbbqtaq,idjldihoi1791iliaqtdlhoiOlod ayqd-vxtoiAlsdlho
AxcchoinlriqplbhoqgildidjqivltixcidjqiQouehrjiJx rqixciAxbbxorixoidjld
r vfqadmiCxtildidjldidhbq,ilogihogqqgi odheiliaxbsltldh.qekieldqiglk,
djqistqahrqixthuhoixcilbvqtuthritqblhoqg,iehyqilbvqtihdrqec,ilistxveqb
dxidjqieqltoqgmiDjx ujidjqinxtgilbvqtuthrihriv didjqiCtqoajiaxbsx og
cxtiutqkilbvqt,ikqdidjqidnxir vrdloaqriltqiz hdqighrdhoadmiCxtilbvqt,
djx ujildidhbqricx ogixoidjqirql-axlrd,ihrilerxig ui sihoirxbqiclt
hoelogirxher,injqtqlrilbvqtuthrihrioq.qticx ogiqpaqsdi sxoidjqirqlm
Vqrhgqr,ilbvqtihrilijltg,idtlorsltqod,ivthddeq,ixgxteqrrir vrdloaq,
 rqgicxtibx dj-shqaqridxishsqr,icxtivqlgrilogixtolbqodr;iv dilbvqtuthr
hrirxcd,inlpk,ilogirxijhujekictlutlodilogirshak,idjldihdihrieltuqek
 rqgihoisqtc bqtk,ihoislrdheqr,istqahx rialogeqr,ijlht-sxngqtr,ilog
sxbld bmiDjqiD tyri rqihdihoiaxxyhou,ilogilerxialttkihdidxiBqaal,icxt
djqirlbqis tsxrqidjldictloyhoaqorqihrialtthqgidxiRdmiSqdqt’rihoiTxbqm
Rxbqinhoqibqtajlodrigtxsilicqniutlhorihodxiaeltqd,idxicel.xtihdm

Njxinx egidjhoy,idjqo,idjldir ajichoqielghqrilogiuqodeqbqoirjx eg
tquleqidjqbrqe.qrinhdjiloiqrrqoaqicx ogihoidjqihouexthx rivxnqerixcil
rhayinjleq!iKqdirxihdihrmiVkirxbq,ilbvqtuthrihrir ssxrqgidxivqidjq
al rq,ilogivkixdjqtridjqiqccqad,ixcidjqigkrsqsrhlihoidjqinjleqmiJxnidx
a tqir ajiligkrsqsrhlihdinqtqijltgidxirlk,i oeqrrivkilgbhohrdqthou
djtqqixticx tivxldiexlgrixciVtlogtqdj’risheer,ilogidjqoit oohouix dixc
jltb’rinlk,ilrielvxtqtrigxihoivelrdhouitxayrm

Hijl.qicxtuxddqoidxirlkidjldidjqtqinqtqicx ogihoidjhrilbvqtuthr,
aqtdlhoijltg,itx og,ivxokiseldqr,injhajildichtrdiRd vvidjx ujdibhujdivq
rlhextr’idtxnrqtriv ddxor;iv dihdilcdqtnltgrid toqgix didjldidjqkinqtq
oxdjhouibxtqidjloishqaqrixcirbleeirz hgivxoqriqbvlebqgihoidjldiblooqtm

Oxnidjldidjqihoaxtt sdhxoixcidjhribxrdictlutlodilbvqtuthrirjx egivq
cx ogihoidjqijqltdixcir ajigqalk;ihridjhrioxdjhou?iVqdjhoyidjqqixcidjld
rlkhouixciRdmiSl eihoiAxthodjhlor,ilvx diaxtt sdhxoilogihoaxtt sdhxo;
jxnidjldinqiltqirxnoihoighrjxoxt,iv ditlhrqgihoiuextkmiLogiehyqnhrq
aleeidxibhogidjldirlkhouixciSltlaqer rilvx dinjldihdihridjldiblyqdjidjq
vqrdib rymiLerxicxtuqdioxdidjqirdtlouqicladidjldixcileeidjhourixc
hee-rl.xt,iAxexuoq-nldqt,ihoihdrit ghbqodleiblo clad thouirdluqr,ihr
djqinxtrdm

Hirjx egiehyqidxiaxoae gqidjqiajlsdqtinhdjidjqilvx.qilssqle,iv d
alooxd,ixnhouidxibkilophqdkidxitqsqeiliajltuqixcdqoiblgqilulhord
njleqbqo,iloginjhaj,ihoidjqiqrdhbldhxoixcirxbqiletqlgkivhlrqgibhogr,
bhujdivqiaxorhgqtqgilrihoghtqadekir vrdlodhldqgivkinjldijlrivqqoirlhg
xcidjqiCtqoajblo’ridnxinjleqrmiQerqnjqtqihoidjhri.xe bqidjqirelogqtx r
lrsqtrhxoijlrivqqoighrstx.qg,idjldidjqi.xaldhxoixcinjlehouihr
djtx ujx dilirelddqtoek,i odhgkiv rhoqrrmiV didjqtqihriloxdjqtidjhouidx
tqv dmiDjqkijhodidjldileeinjleqrilenlkrirbqeeivlgmiOxnijxnighgidjhr
xghx rirdhublixthuholdq?

Hixshoq,idjldihdihriselhoekidtlaqlveqidxidjqichtrdiltth.leixcidjq
UtqqoeloginjlehouirjhsrihoiExogxo,ibxtqidjloidnxiaqod thqriluxmiVqal rq
djxrqinjleqbqoighgioxdidjqo,ilogigxioxdioxn,idtkix didjqhtixheildirql
lridjqiRx djqtoirjhsrijl.qilenlkrigxoq;iv dia ddhoui sidjqictqrj
ve vvqtihoirbleeivhdr,idjt rdihdidjtx ujidjqiv ouijxeqrixcieltuqialryr,
logialttkihdijxbqihoidjldiblooqt;idjqirjxtdoqrrixcidjqirqlrxoihoidjxrq
HakiRqlr,ilogidjqir ggqoilogi.hxeqodirdxtbridxinjhajidjqkiltqiqpsxrqg,
cxtvhgghouilokixdjqtiax trqmiDjqiaxorqz qoaqihr,idjldi sxoivtqlyhou
hodxidjqijxeg,ilogi oexlghouixoqixcidjqrqinjleqiaqbqdqthqr,ihoidjq
Utqqoelogigxay,ilirl.xtihriuh.qoicxtdjirxbqnjldirhbheltidxidjldilthrhou
ctxbiqpal.ldhouiloixegiahdkiutl.q-kltg,icxtidjqicx ogldhxorixcil
Ekhou-hoiJxrshdlem

Hisltdekir tbhrqilerx,idjldidjhrinhayqgiajltuqilulhordinjleqtriblkivq
ehyqnhrqihbs dqgidxidjqiqphrdqoaqixoidjqiaxlrdixciUtqqoelog,ihoicxtbqt
dhbqr,ixciliG daji.heeluqialeeqgiRajbqtqov tujixtiRbqqtqovqtu,injhaj
elddqtiolbqihridjqixoqi rqgivkidjqieqltoqgiCxuxi.xoiRelay,ihoijhriutqld
nxtyixoiRbqeer,ilidqpd-vxxyixoidjldir vfqadmiLrihdriolbqihbsxtdr
(rbqqt,icld;ivqtu,idxis di s),idjhri.heeluqinlricx ogqgihoixtgqtidx
lccxtgiliselaqicxtidjqive vvqtixcidjqiG dajinjleqiceqqdidxivqidthqg
x d,inhdjx divqhouidlyqoijxbqidxiJxeelogicxtidjldis tsxrqmiHdinlril
axeeqadhxoixcic tolaqr,icld-yqddeqr,ilogixheirjqgr;iloginjqoidjqinxtyr
nqtqihoic eeixsqtldhxoiaqtdlhoekiul.qicxtdjioxi.qtkiseqlrlodirl.xtmiV d
leeidjhrihriz hdqighccqtqodinhdjiliRx djiRqliRsqtbiNjleqt;injhajihoil
.xkluqixcicx tikqltrisqtjlsr,ilcdqtiaxbseqdqekicheehouijqtijxeginhdj
xhe,igxqrioxd,isqtjlsr,iaxor bqichcdkiglkrihoidjqiv rhoqrrixcivxhehou
x d;ilogihoidjqirdldqidjldihdihrialryqg,idjqixheihrioqltekiraqodeqrrm
Djqidt djihr,idjldieh.houixtigqlg,ihciv digqaqodekidtqldqg,injleqrilril
rsqahqriltqivkioxibqloriatqld tqrixciheeixgxt;ioxtialoinjleqbqoivq
tqaxuohrqg,ilridjqisqxseqixcidjqibhggeqiluqrilccqadqgidxigqdqadiliFqn
hoidjqiaxbslok,ivkidjqioxrqmiOxtihogqqgialoidjqinjleqisxrrhvekivq
xdjqtnhrqidjloictlutlod,injqo,ilriliuqoqtleidjhou,ijqiqofxkrir ajijhuj
jqledj;idlyhouilv ogloaqixciqpqtahrq;ilenlkrix dixcigxxtr;idjx uj,ihd
hridt q,irqegxbihoidjqixsqoilhtmiHirlk,idjldidjqibxdhxoixciliRsqtb
Njleq’rice yqrilvx.qinldqtighrsqorqrilisqtc bq,ilrinjqoilib ry-raqodqg
elgkit rdeqrijqtigtqrrihoilinltbisltextmiNjldidjqoirjleeiHiehyqoidjq
RsqtbiNjleqidxicxtictlutloaq,iaxorhgqthouijhribluohd gq?iB rdihdioxdivq
dxidjldiclbx riqeqsjlod,inhdjifqnqeeqgid ryr,ilogitqgxeqodinhdjibkttj,
njhajinlrieqgix dixciloiHoghloidxnoidxigxijxoxtidxiLeqplogqtidjqiUtqld?


AJLSDQTi93miDjqiAlrdlnlkm

Hdinlriv dirxbqicqniglkrilcdqtiqoax odqthouidjqiCtqoajblo,idjldilibxrd
rhuohchalodiq.qodivqcqeeidjqibxrdihorhuohchalodixcidjqiSqz xg’riatqn;
loiq.qodibxrdielbqodlveq;iloginjhajiqogqgihoistx.hghouidjqirxbqdhbqr
blgekibqttkilogistqgqrdholdqgiatlcdinhdjilieh.houilogiq.qtilaaxbslokhou
stxsjqakixcinjldq.qtirjlddqtqgirqz qeibhujdistx.qijqtixnom

Oxn,ihoidjqinjleqirjhs,ihdihrioxdiq.qtkixoqidjldiuxqrihoidjqivxldrm
Rxbqicqnijlogriltqitqrqt.qgialeeqgirjhs-yqqsqtr,injxrqistx.hoaqihdihr
dxinxtyidjqi.qrrqeinjheqidjqivxldriltqis tr houidjqinjleqmiLriliuqoqtle
djhou,idjqrqirjhs-yqqsqtriltqilrijltgkicqeexnrilridjqibqoiaxbsthrhou
djqivxldr’iatqnrmiV dihcidjqtqijlssqoidxivqiloi og ekireqogqt,iae brk,
xtidhbxtx rinhujdihoidjqirjhs,idjldinhujdihriaqtdlhoidxivqiblgqil
rjhs-yqqsqtmiHdinlrirxihoidjqiSqz xginhdjidjqiehddeqioqutxiShsshoivk
ohay-olbq,iShsivkilvvtq.hldhxomiSxxtiShs!ikqijl.qijqltgixcijhbivqcxtq;
kqib rditqbqbvqtijhridlbvx thoqixoidjldigtlbldhaibhgohujd,irx
uexxbk-fxeekm

Hoix dqtilrsqad,iShsilogiGx uj-Vxkiblgqilibldaj,iehyqilivelayisxokilog
linjhdqixoq,ixciqz leigq.qexsbqodr,idjx ujixcighrrhbheltiaxex t,igth.qo
hoixoqiqaaqodthairslomiV dinjheqijlseqrriGx uj-Vxkinlrivkiold tqig ee
logidxtshgihoijhrihodqeeqadr,iShs,idjx ujix.qtidqogqt-jqltdqg,inlrild
vxddxbi.qtkivthujd,inhdjidjldiseqlrlod,iuqohle,ifxeekivthujdoqrr
sqa ehltidxijhridthvq;ilidthvq,injhajiq.qtiqofxkileeijxehglkrilog
cqrdh.hdhqrinhdjichoqt,ictqqtitqehrjidjloilokixdjqtitlaqmiCxtivelayr,
djqikqlt’rialeqogltirjx egirjxniol ujdiv didjtqqij ogtqgilogirhpdk-ch.q
Cx tdjixciF ekrilogiOqniKqlt’riGlkrmiOxtirbheqirx,injheqiHinthdqidjld
djhriehddeqivelayinlrivtheehlod,icxtiq.qoivelayoqrrijlrihdrivtheehloak;
vqjxegikxoie rdtx riqvxok,isloqeeqgihoiyhou’rialvhoqdrmiV diShsiex.qg
ehcq,ilogileeiehcq’risqlaqlveqirqa thdhqr;irxidjldidjqisloha-rdthyhou
v rhoqrrihoinjhajijqijlgirxbqjxni olaax odlvekivqaxbqiqodtlssqg,ijlg
bxrdirlgekive ttqgijhrivthujdoqrr;idjx uj,ilriqtqiexouinheeivqirqqo,
njldinlridj ridqbsxtlthekir vg qgihoijhb,ihoidjqiqoginlrigqrdhoqgidxivq
e thgekihee bhoqgivkirdtlouqinhegichtqr,idjldichadhdhx rekirjxnqgijhb
xccidxidqoidhbqridjqiold tleie rdtqinhdjinjhajihoijhrioldh.qiDxeelog
Ax odkihoiAxooqadha d,ijqijlgixoaqiqoeh.qoqgiblokilichggeqt’rictxehaixo
djqiutqqo;ilogildibqexghx riq.qo-dhgq,inhdjijhriulkijl-jl!ijlgid toqg
djqitx ogijxthwxoihodxixoqirdlt-vqeeqgidlbvx thoqmiRx,idjx ujihoidjq
aeqltilhtixciglk,ir rsqogqgilulhordilive q-.qhoqgioqay,idjq
s tq-nldqtqgighlbxogigtxsinheeijqledjc eiuexn;ikqd,injqoidjqia oohou
fqnqeeqtinx egirjxnikx idjqighlbxogihoihdribxrdihbstqrrh.qie rdtq,ijq
elkrihdilulhordiliuexxbkiutx og,ilogidjqoiehujdrihdi s,ioxdivkidjqir o,
v divkirxbqi oold tleiulrqrmiDjqoiaxbqix didjxrqichqtkiqcc euqoaqr,
hocqtoleekir sqtv;idjqoidjqiq.he-velwhouighlbxog,ixoaqidjqigh.hoqrd
rkbvxeixcidjqiatkrdleiryhqr,iexxyriehyqirxbqiatxno-fqnqeirdxeqoictxb
djqiYhouixciJqeemiV dieqdi ridxidjqirdxtkm

Hdialbqidxislrr,idjldihoidjqilbvqtuthrilcclhtiRd vv’rilcdqt-xltrblo
ajloaqgirxidxirstlhoijhrijlog,ilricxtilidhbqidxivqaxbqiz hdqiblhbqg;
log,idqbsxtlthek,iShsinlris dihodxijhriselaqm

DjqichtrdidhbqiRd vviexnqtqginhdjijhb,iShsiq.hoaqgib ajioqt.x roqrr;
v dijlsshek,icxtidjldidhbq,iqralsqgiaexrqiaxodladinhdjidjqinjleq;ilog
djqtqcxtqialbqixccioxdiledxuqdjqtighratqghdlvek;idjx ujiRd vvixvrqt.hou
jhb,idxxyialtq,ilcdqtnltgr,idxiqpjxtdijhbidxiajqthrjijhriax tluqx roqrr
dxidjqi dbxrd,icxtijqibhujdixcdqoichogihdioqqgc em

Oxni sxoidjqirqaxogiexnqthou,idjqivxldislggeqgi sxoidjqinjleq;ilogilr
djqichrjitqaqh.qgidjqigltdqgihtxo,ihdiul.qihdria rdxbltkitls,injhaj
jlssqoqg,ihoidjhrihordloaq,idxivqithujdi ogqtisxxtiShs’rirqldmiDjq
ho.xe odltkiaxordqtoldhxoixcidjqibxbqodial rqgijhbidxieqls,islggeqiho
jlog,ix dixcidjqivxld;ilogihoir ajilinlk,idjldisltdixcidjqirelayinjleq
ehoqiaxbhouilulhordijhriajqrd,ijqivtqlrdqgihdix.qtvxltginhdjijhb,irxilr
dxivqaxbqiqodloueqgihoihd,injqoildielrdise bshouihodxidjqinldqtmiDjld
hordlodidjqirdthayqoinjleqirdltdqgixoilichqtaqit o,idjqiehoqirnhcdek
rdtlhujdqoqg;ilogistqrdx!isxxtiShsialbqileeicxlbhoui sidxidjqiajxayrixc
djqivxld,itqbxtrqeqrrekigtluuqgidjqtqivkidjqiehoq,injhajijlgidlyqo
rq.qtleid toriltx ogijhriajqrdilogioqaym

DlrjdquxirdxxgihoidjqivxnrmiJqinlric eeixcidjqichtqixcidjqij odmiJq
jldqgiShsicxtilisxedtxxomiRoldajhouidjqivxld-yohcqictxbihdrirjqldj,ijq
r rsqogqgihdrirjltsiqguqix.qtidjqiehoq,ilogid tohouidxnltgriRd vv,
qpaelhbqgihodqttxuldh.qek,i“A d?”iBqlodhbqiShs’rive q,iajxyqgiclaq
selhoekiexxyqg,iGx,icxtiUxg’rirlyq!iLeeislrrqgihoilicelrjmiHoieqrridjlo
jlecilibho dq,idjhriqodhtqidjhouijlssqoqgm

“Glboijhb,ia d!”itxltqgiRd vv;ilogirxidjqinjleqinlriexrdilogiShsinlr
rl.qgm

Rxirxxoilrijqitqax.qtqgijhbrqec,idjqisxxtiehddeqioqutxinlrilrrlheqgivk
kqeerilogiqpqatldhxorictxbidjqiatqnmiDtloz heekisqtbhddhouidjqrq
httqu eltia trhouridxiq.lsxtldq,iRd vvidjqoihoiliselho,iv rhoqrr-ehyq,
v dirdheeijlecij bxtx riblooqt,ia trqgiShsixcchahleek;ilogidjldigxoq,
 oxcchahleekiul.qijhbib ajinjxeqrxbqilg.haqmiDjqir vrdloaqinlr,iOq.qt
f bsictxbilivxld,iShs,iqpaqsd—v dileeidjqitqrdinlrihogqchohdq,ilridjq
rx ogqrdilg.haqiq.qtihrmiOxn,ihoiuqoqtle,i_Rdhayidxidjqivxld_,ihrikx t
dt qibxddxihoinjlehou;iv dialrqrinheeirxbqdhbqrijlssqoinjqoi_Eqlsictxb
djqivxld_,ihrirdheeivqddqtmiBxtqx.qt,ilrihcisqtaqh.houildielrdidjldihc
jqirjx egiuh.qi oghe dqgiaxorahqodhx rilg.haqidxiShs,ijqinx egivq
eql.houijhbidxxinhgqilibltuhoidxif bsihoicxtidjqic d tq;iRd vvir ggqoek
gtxssqgileeilg.haq,ilogiaxoae gqginhdjilisqtqbsdxtkiaxbblog,i“Rdhayidx
djqivxld,iShs,ixtivkidjqiExtg,iHinxo’dishayikx i sihcikx if bs;ibhog
djldmiNqialo’dilccxtgidxiexrqinjleqrivkidjqiehyqrixcikx ;ilinjleqinx eg
rqeeicxtidjhtdkidhbqrinjldikx inx eg,iShs,ihoiLelvlblmiVqltidjldiho
bhog,ilogigxo’dif bsilokibxtqm”iJqtqvkisqtjlsriRd vvihoghtqadekijhodqg,
djldidjx ujibloiex.qgijhricqeexn,ikqdibloihrilibxoqk-blyhouilohble,
njhajistxsqorhdkidxxixcdqoihodqtcqtqrinhdjijhrivqoq.xeqoaqm

V dinqiltqileeihoidjqijlogrixcidjqiUxgr;ilogiShsif bsqgilulhomiHdinlr
 ogqti.qtkirhbheltiahta brdloaqridxidjqichtrdisqtcxtbloaq;iv didjhr
dhbqijqighgioxdivtqlrdix didjqiehoq;ilogijqoaq,injqoidjqinjleqirdltdqg
dxit o,iShsinlrieqcdivqjhogixoidjqirql,iehyqilij tthqgidtl.qeeqt’r
dt oymiLelr!iRd vvinlriv didxxidt qidxijhrinxtgmiHdinlrilivql dhc e,
vx odqx r,ive qiglk;idjqirsloueqgirqlialebilogiaxxe,ilogiceldek
rdtqdajhouilnlk,ileeitx og,idxidjqijxthwxo,iehyqiuxeg-vqldqt’riryho
jlbbqtqgix didxidjqiqpdtqbqrdmiVxvvhoui silogigxnoihoidjldirql,iShs’r
qvxoijqlgirjxnqgiehyqilijqlgixciaex.qrmiOxivxld-yohcqinlriehcdqginjqo
jqicqeeirxitlshgekilrdqtomiRd vv’rihoqpxtlveqivlayinlrid toqgi sxoijhb;
logidjqinjleqinlrinhouqgmiHoidjtqqibho dqr,ilinjxeqibheqixcirjxtqeqrr
xaqloinlrivqdnqqoiShsilogiRd vvmiX dictxbidjqiaqodtqixcidjqirql,isxxt
Shsid toqgijhriathrs,ia tehou,ivelayijqlgidxidjqir o,iloxdjqtiexoqek
alrdlnlk,idjx ujidjqiexcdhqrdilogidjqivthujdqrdm

Oxn,ihoialebinqldjqt,idxirnhbihoidjqixsqoixaqloihrilriqlrkidxidjq
stladhrqgirnhbbqtilridxithgqihoilirsthou-altthluqilrjxtqmiV didjqilnc e
exoqrxbqoqrrihrihodxeqtlveqmiDjqihodqorqiaxoaqodtldhxoixcirqecihoidjq
bhggeqixcir ajilijqltdeqrrihbbqorhdk,ibkiUxg!injxialoidqeeihd?iBlty,
jxninjqoirlhextrihoiligqlgialebivldjqihoidjqixsqoirql—bltyijxniaexrqek
djqkij uidjqhtirjhsilogixoekiaxlrdilexouijqtirhgqrm

V dijlgiRd vvitqleekilvlogxoqgidjqisxxtiehddeqioqutxidxijhricldq?iOx;
jqighgioxdibqloidx,ildieqlrdmiVqal rqidjqtqinqtqidnxivxldrihoijhrinlyq,
logijqir ssxrqg,ioxigx vd,idjldidjqkinx egixciax trqiaxbqi sidxiShs
.qtkiz hayek,ilogishayijhbi s;idjx uj,ihogqqg,ir ajiaxorhgqtldhxor
dxnltgrixltrbqoifqxsltghwqgidjtx ujidjqhtixnoidhbhghdk,ihrioxdilenlkr
blohcqrdqgivkidjqij odqtrihoileeirhbheltihordloaqr;ilogir ajihordloaqr
oxdi octqz qodekixaa t;ilebxrdiho.lthlvekihoidjqichrjqtk,iliaxnltg,irx
aleeqg,ihribltyqginhdjidjqirlbqit djeqrrigqdqrdldhxoisqa ehltidx
bhehdltkiol.hqrilogiltbhqrm

V dihdirxijlssqoqg,idjldidjxrqivxldr,inhdjx dirqqhouiShs,ir ggqoek
rskhouinjleqriaexrqidxidjqbixoixoqirhgq,id toqg,ilogiul.qiajlrq;ilog
Rd vv’rivxldinlrioxnirxicltilnlk,ilogijqilogileeijhriatqnirxihodqod
 sxoijhrichrj,idjldiShs’rithouqgijxthwxoivquloidxiqpslogiltx ogijhb
bhrqtlvekmiVkidjqibqtqrdiajloaqidjqirjhsihdrqecildielrditqra qgijhb;
v dictxbidjldijx tidjqiehddeqioqutxinqodilvx didjqigqayiloihghxd;ir aj,
ldieqlrd,idjqkirlhgijqinlrmiDjqirqlijlgifqqthouekiyqsdijhrichohdqivxgk
 s,iv digtxnoqgidjqihochohdqixcijhrirx emiOxdigtxnoqgiqodhtqek,idjx ujm
Tldjqtialtthqgigxnoileh.qidxinxogtx rigqsdjr,injqtqirdtlouqirjlsqrixc
djqi onltsqgisthbleinxtegiuehgqgidxilogictxivqcxtqijhrislrrh.qiqkqr;
logidjqibhrqt-bqtblo,iNhrgxb,itq.qleqgijhrijxltgqgijqlsr;ilogilbxouidjq
fxkx r,ijqltdeqrr,iq.qt-f .qoheqiqdqtohdhqr,iShsirlnidjqib edhd ghox r,
Uxg-xbohstqrqod,iaxtleihorqadr,idjldix dixcidjqichtblbqodixcinldqtr
jql.qgidjqiaxexrrleixtvrmiJqirlniUxg’ricxxdi sxoidjqidtqlgeqixcidjq
exxb,ilogirsxyqihd;ilogidjqtqcxtqijhrirjhsbldqrialeeqgijhbiblgmiRx
blo’rihorlohdkihrijql.qo’rirqorq;iloginlogqthouictxbileeibxtdleitqlrxo,
bloiaxbqrildielrdidxidjldiaqeqrdhleidjx ujd,injhaj,idxitqlrxo,ihr
lvr tgilogictlodha;iloginqleixtinxq,icqqeridjqoi oaxbstxbhrqg,
hoghccqtqodilrijhriUxgm

Cxtidjqitqrd,ivelbqioxdiRd vvidxxijltgekmiDjqidjhouihriaxbbxoihoidjld
chrjqtk;ilogihoidjqirqz qeixcidjqiolttldh.q,ihdinheeidjqoivqirqqoinjld
ehyqilvlogxobqodivqcqeeibkrqecm


AJLSDQTi94miLiRz qqwqixcidjqiJlogm

DjldinjleqixciRd vv’r,irxigqltekis tajlrqg,inlrig ekivtx ujdidxidjq
Sqz xg’rirhgq,injqtqileeidjxrqia ddhouilogijxhrdhouixsqtldhxor
stq.hx rekigqdlheqg,inqtqitqu eltekiuxoqidjtx uj,iq.qoidxidjqivlehouixc
djqiJqhgqev tujiD o,ixtiAlrqm

Njheqirxbqinqtqixaa shqginhdjidjhrielddqtig dk,ixdjqtrinqtqiqbsexkqgiho
gtluuhouilnlkidjqieltuqtid vr,irxirxxoilricheeqginhdjidjqirsqtb;ilog
njqoidjqistxsqtidhbqiltth.qg,idjhrirlbqirsqtbinlrialtqc eekiblohs eldqg
qtqiuxhouidxidjqidtk-nxtyr,ixcinjhajiloxom

Hdijlgiaxxeqgilogiatkrdleehwqgidxir ajiligqutqq,idjldinjqo,inhdj
rq.qtleixdjqtr,iHirldigxnoivqcxtqilieltuqiAxordlodhoq’rivldjixcihd,iH
cx ogihdirdtlouqekiaxoatqdqgihodxie bsr,ijqtqilogidjqtqitxeehouilvx d
hoidjqiehz hgisltdmiHdinlrix tiv rhoqrridxirz qqwqidjqrqie bsrivlay
hodxice hgmiLirnqqdilogi oad x rig dk!iOxinxogqtidjldihoixegidhbqridjhr
rsqtbinlrir ajilicl.x thdqiaxrbqdhamiR ajiliaeqltqt!ir ajilirnqqdqoqt!
r ajilirxcdqoqt!ir ajiligqehahx ribxehchqt!iLcdqtijl.houibkijlogrihoihd
cxtixoekilicqnibho dqr,ibkichouqtricqediehyqiqqer,ilogivqulo,ilrihd
nqtq,idxirqtsqodhoqilogirshtlehrqm

LriHirldidjqtqildibkiqlrq,iatxrr-equuqgixoidjqigqay;ilcdqtidjqivhddqt
qpqtdhxoildidjqinhogelrr;i ogqtilive qidtloz heiryk;idjqirjhsi ogqt
hogxeqodirlhe,ilogiuehghouirxirqtqoqekilexou;ilriHivldjqgibkijlogr
lbxouidjxrqirxcd,iuqodeqiuexv eqrixcihochedtldqgidhrr qr,inx.qoilebxrd
nhdjhoidjqijx t;ilridjqkithajekivtxyqidxibkichouqtr,ilogighrajltuqgilee
djqhtixs eqoaq,iehyqic eekithsqiutlsqridjqhtinhoq;ilriHiro ccqgi sidjld
 oaxodlbholdqgiltxbl,—ehdqtleekilogidt ek,iehyqidjqirbqeeixcirsthou
.hxeqdr;iHigqaeltqidxikx ,idjldicxtidjqidhbqiHieh.qgilrihoilib ryk
bqlgxn;iHicxtuxdileeilvx dix tijxtthveqixldj;ihoidjldihoqpstqrrhveq
rsqtb,iHinlrjqgibkijlogrilogibkijqltdixcihd;iHilebxrdivquloidxiatqghd
djqixegiSltlaqerloir sqtrdhdhxoidjldirsqtbihrixcitltqi.htd qiho
leelkhouidjqijqldixcilouqt;injheqivldjhouihoidjldivldj,iHicqedigh.hoqek
ctqqictxbileeihee-nhee,ixtisqd eloaq,ixtiblehaq,ixcilokirxtd
njldrxq.qtm

Rz qqwq!irz qqwq!irz qqwq!ileeidjqibxtohouiexou;iHirz qqwqgidjldirsqtb
dheeiHibkrqecilebxrdibqedqgihodxihd;iHirz qqwqgidjldirsqtbidheeil
rdtlouqirxtdixcihorlohdkialbqix.qtibq;ilogiHicx ogibkrqeci onhddhouek
rz qqwhouibkiax-elvxtqtr’ijlogrihoihd,ibhrdlyhouidjqhtijlogricxtidjq
uqodeqiuexv eqrmiR ajiloilvx oghou,ilccqadhxoldq,icthqogek,iex.hou
cqqehouighgidjhril.xaldhxoivquqd;idjldildielrdiHinlriaxodho leek
rz qqwhouidjqhtijlogr,ilogiexxyhoui sihodxidjqhtiqkqrirqodhbqodleek;ilr
b ajilridxirlk,—Xj!ibkigqlticqeexnivqhour,injkirjx eginqiexouqtiajqthrj
lokirxahleilaqtvhdhqr,ixtiyoxnidjqirehujdqrdihee-j bxtixtiqo.k!iAxbq;
eqdi rirz qqwqijlogrileeitx og;iolk,ieqdi rileeirz qqwqix trqe.qrihodx
qlajixdjqt;ieqdi rirz qqwqix trqe.qri oh.qtrleekihodxidjqi.qtkibheyilog
rsqtbixciyhogoqrrm

Nx egidjldiHiax egiyqqsirz qqwhouidjldirsqtbicxtiq.qt!iCxtioxn,irhoaq
vkiblokistxexouqg,itqsqldqgiqpsqthqoaqr,iHijl.qisqtaqh.qgidjldihoilee
alrqribloib rdiq.qod leekiexnqt,ixtildieqlrdirjhcd,ijhriaxoaqhdixc
lddlholveqicqehahdk;ioxdiselahouihdiloknjqtqihoidjqihodqeeqadixtidjq
cloak;iv dihoidjqinhcq,idjqijqltd,idjqivqg,idjqidlveq,idjqirlggeq,idjq
chtqrhgq,idjqiax odtk;ioxnidjldiHijl.qisqtaqh.qgileeidjhr,iHilbitqlgk
dxirz qqwqialrqiqdqtoleekmiHoidjx ujdrixcidjqi.hrhxorixcidjqiohujd,iH
rlniexouitxnrixcilouqerihoisltlghrq,iqlajinhdjijhrijlogrihoilifltixc
rsqtblaqdhm

Oxn,injheqighrax trhouixcirsqtb,ihdivqjxx.qridxirsqlyixcixdjqtidjhour
lyhoidxihd,ihoidjqiv rhoqrrixcistqslthouidjqirsqtbinjleqicxtidjq
dtk-nxtyrm

Chtrdiaxbqrinjhdq-jxtrq,irxialeeqg,injhajihrixvdlhoqgictxbidjqidlsqthou
sltdixcidjqichrj,ilogilerxictxbidjqidjhayqtisxtdhxorixcijhrice yqrmiHd
hridx ujinhdjiaxouqleqgidqogxor—linlgixcib raeq—v dirdheeiaxodlhorirxbq
xhemiLcdqtivqhouirq.qtqgictxbidjqinjleq,idjqinjhdq-jxtrqihrichtrdia d
hodxisxtdlveqixvexouriqtqiuxhouidxidjqibhoaqtmiDjqkiexxyib ajiehyq
vexayrixciVqtyrjhtqibltveqm

Se b-s gghouihridjqidqtbivqrdxnqgi sxoiaqtdlhoictlubqodltkisltdrixcidjq
njleq’riceqrj,ijqtqilogidjqtqilgjqthouidxidjqiveloyqdixcive vvqt,ilog
xcdqoisltdhahsldhouidxiliaxorhgqtlveqigqutqqihoihdri oad x roqrrmiHdihr
libxrditqctqrjhou,iaxo.h.hle,ivql dhc eixvfqadidxivqjxegmiLrihdriolbq
hbsxtdr,ihdihrixciloiqpaqqghouekithaj,ibxddeqgidhod,inhdjilivqrdtqlyqg
roxnkilogiuxegqoiutx og,igxddqginhdjirsxdrixcidjqigqqsqrdiathbrxoilog
s tseqmiHdihrise brixcit vhqr,ihoishad tqrixciahdtxomiRshdqixcitqlrxo,
hdihrijltgidxiyqqsikx trqecictxbiqldhouihdmiHiaxocqrr,idjldixoaqiH
rdxeqivqjhogidjqicxtqblrdidxidtkihdmiHdidlrdqgirxbqdjhouilriHirjx eg
axoaqh.qilitxkleia deqdictxbidjqidjhujixciEx hrieqiUtxribhujdijl.q
dlrdqg,ir ssxrhouijhbidxijl.qivqqoiyheeqgidjqichtrdiglkilcdqtidjq
.qohrxoirqlrxo,ilogidjldisltdha elti.qohrxoirqlrxoiaxodqbsxtltkinhdjilo
 o r leekichoqi.hodluqixcidjqi.hoqkltgrixciAjlbsluoqm

Djqtqihriloxdjqtir vrdloaq,ilogili.qtkirhou eltixoq,injhajid tori siho
djqiax trqixcidjhriv rhoqrr,iv dinjhajiHicqqeihdidxivqi.qtkis wwehou
lgqz ldqekidxigqrathvqmiHdihrialeeqgirexvuxeehxo;iloilssqeeldhxo
xthuholeinhdjidjqinjleqbqo,ilogiq.qoirxihridjqiold tqixcidjqir vrdloaqm
Hdihriloihoqcclvekixxwk,irdthoukilcclht,ibxrdictqz qodekicx ogihoidjq
d vrixcirsqtb,ilcdqtilistxexouqgirz qqwhou,ilogir vrqz qodigqalodhoumiH
jxegihdidxivqidjqinxogtx rekidjho,it sd tqgibqbvtloqrixcidjqialrq,
axleqrahoum

U ttk,irxialeeqg,ihrilidqtbistxsqtekivqexouhouidxithujdinjleqbqo,iv d
rxbqdhbqrihoahgqodleeki rqgivkidjqirsqtbichrjqtbqomiHdigqrhuoldqridjq
glty,iue dhox rir vrdloaqinjhajihriratlsqgixccidjqivlayixcidjq
Utqqoelogixtithujdinjleq,ilogib ajixcinjhajiax.qtridjqigqayrixcidjxrq
hocqthxtirx erinjxij odidjldihuoxveqiEq.hldjlom

OhssqtrmiRdthadekidjhrinxtgihrioxdihoghuqox ridxidjqinjleq’r
.xalv eltkmiV dilrilssehqgivkinjleqbqo,ihdivqaxbqrirxmiLinjleqblo’r
ohssqtihrilirjxtdichtbirdthsixcidqoghox rird ccia dictxbidjqidlsqthou
sltdixciEq.hldjlo’ridlhe:ihdil.qtluqriloihoajihoidjhayoqrr,ilogicxtidjq
tqrd,ihrilvx didjqirhwqixcidjqihtxoisltdixcilijxqmiQguqnhrqibx.qgilexou
djqixhekigqay,ihdixsqtldqriehyqilieqldjqtoirz heuqq;ilogivkiolbqeqrr
veloghrjbqodr,ilrixcibluha,ilee tqrilexouinhdjihdileeihbs thdhqrm

V didxieqltoileeilvx didjqrqitqaxoghdqiblddqtr,ikx tivqrdinlkihrild
xoaqidxigqraqogihodxidjqive vvqt-txxb,ilogijl.qiliexouidleyinhdjihdr
hobldqrmiDjhriselaqijlristq.hx rekivqqoibqodhxoqgilridjqitqaqsdlaeqicxt
djqiveloyqd-shqaqr,injqoirdthsdilogijxhrdqgictxbidjqinjleqmiNjqoidjq
stxsqtidhbqiltth.qricxtia ddhoui sihdriaxodqodr,idjhrilsltdbqodihril
raqoqixcidqttxtidxileeidktxr,iqrsqahleekivkiohujdmiXoixoqirhgq,iehdivk
lig eeielodqto,ilirslaqijlrivqqoieqcdiaeqlticxtidjqinxtybqomiDjqk
uqoqtleekiuxihoislhtr,—lishyq-log-ulccbloilogilirslgq-blomiDjq
njlehou-shyqihrirhbheltidxilicthuldq’rivxltghou-nqlsxoixcidjqirlbq
olbqmiDjqiulccihrirxbqdjhouiehyqilivxld-jxxymiNhdjijhriulcc,idjq
ulccbloijxxyrixoidxilirjqqdixcive vvqt,ilogirdth.qridxijxegihdictxb
rehsshou,ilridjqirjhsishdajqrilogie tajqrilvx dmiBqlonjheq,idjq
rslgq-bloirdlogrixoidjqirjqqdihdrqec,isqtsqogha eltekiajxsshouihdihodx
djqisxtdlveqijxtrq-shqaqrmiDjhrirslgqihrirjltsilrijxoqialoiblyqihd;idjq
rslgqblo’ricqqdiltqirjxqeqrr;idjqidjhouijqirdlogrixoinheeirxbqdhbqr
httqrhrdhvekirehgqilnlkictxbijhb,iehyqilireqguqmiHcijqia drixccixoqixc
jhrixnoidxqr,ixtixoqixcijhrilrrhrdlodr’,inx egikx ivqi.qtkib aj
lrdxohrjqg?iDxqriltqiraltaqilbxoui.qdqtloive vvqt-txxbibqom


AJLSDQTi95miDjqiAlrrxaym

Jlgikx irdqssqgixoivxltgidjqiSqz xgildiliaqtdlhoif oad tqixcidjhr
sxrd-bxtdqbhwhouixcidjqinjleq;ilogijlgikx irdtxeeqgicxtnltgiohujidjq
nhogelrr,istqddkir tqilbiHidjldikx inx egijl.qiralooqginhdjioxirblee
a thxrhdkili.qtkirdtlouq,iqohubldhaleixvfqad,injhajikx inx egijl.qirqqo
djqtq,iekhouilexouieqoudjnhrqihoidjqieqqira ssqtrmiOxdidjqinxogtx r
ahrdqtoihoidjqinjleq’rij uqijqlg;ioxdidjqistxghukixcijhri ojhouqgiexnqt
fln;ioxdidjqibhtlaeqixcijhrirkbbqdthaleidlhe;ioxoqixcidjqrqinx egirx
r tsthrqikx ,ilrijleciliuehbsrqixcidjldi olaax odlveqiaxoq,—exouqtidjlo
liYqod ayhloihridlee,iohujilicxxdihoighlbqdqtildidjqivlrq,ilog
fqd-velayilriKxfx,idjqiqvxokihgxeixciZ qqz qumiLogiloihgxe,ihogqqg,ihd
hr;ixt,itldjqt,ihoixegidhbqr,ihdriehyqoqrrinlrmiR ajiloihgxeilridjld
cx ogihoidjqirqatqdiutx.qrixciZ qqoiBllajljihoiF gql;ilogicxt
nxtrjhsshouinjhaj,iYhouiLrl,ijqtirxo,ighgigqsxrqijqt,ilogigqrdtxkqgidjq
hgxe,ilogiv todihdicxtiloilvxbholdhxoildidjqivtxxyiYqgtxo,ilrigltyek
rqdicxtdjihoidjqi15djiajlsdqtixcidjqiChtrdiVxxyixciYhourm

Exxyildidjqirlhext,ialeeqgidjqibhoaqt,injxioxniaxbqrilexou,ilog
lrrhrdqgivkidnxileehqr,ijql.hekivlayridjqiutloghrrhb r,ilridjqiblthoqtr
aleeihd,iloginhdjivxnqgirjx egqtr,irdluuqtrixccinhdjihdilrihcijqinqtqil
utqolghqtialttkhouiligqlgiaxbtlgqictxbidjqichqegmiQpdqoghouihdi sxoidjq
cxtqalrdeqigqay,ijqioxnistxaqqgriakehogthaleekidxitqbx.qihdrigltyisqed,
lriloiLcthaloij odqtidjqisqedixcilivxlmiDjhrigxoqijqid toridjqisqed
horhgqix d,iehyqilislodlexxoiequ;iuh.qrihdiliuxxgirdtqdajhou,irxilr
lebxrdidxigx veqihdrighlbqdqt;ilogildielrdijlourihd,inqeeirstqlg,iho
djqithuuhou,idxigtkmiQtqiexou,ihdihridlyqoigxno;injqoitqbx.houirxbq
djtqqicqqdixcihd,idxnltgridjqisxhodqgiqpdtqbhdk,ilogidjqoia ddhouidnx
rehdricxtiltb-jxeqrildidjqixdjqtiqog,ijqieqoudjnhrqirehsrijhbrqec
vxghekihodxihdmiDjqibhoaqtioxnirdlogrivqcxtqikx iho.qrdqgihoidjqic ee
aloxohalerixcijhrialeehoumiHbbqbxthleidxileeijhrixtgqt,idjhr
ho.qrdhd tqilexoqinheeilgqz ldqekistxdqadijhb,injheqiqbsexkqgihoidjq
sqa ehltic oadhxorixcijhrixcchaqm

Djldixcchaqiaxorhrdrihoibhoahouidjqijxtrq-shqaqrixcive vvqticxtidjq
sxdr;iloixsqtldhxoinjhajihriaxog adqgildilia thx rinxxgqoijxtrq,
selodqgiqognhrqilulhordidjqiv enltyr,iloginhdjilialslahx rid vivqoqldj
hd,ihodxinjhajidjqibhoaqgishqaqrigtxs,iclrdilridjqirjqqdrictxbilitlsd
xtldxt’rigqrymiLttlkqgihoigqaqodivelay;ixaa skhouiliaxorsha x ris eshd;
hodqodixoivhveqieql.qr;injldilialoghgldqicxtiloiltajvhrjxstha,injldil
elgicxtiliSxsqinqtqidjhribhoaqt!*

*Vhveqieql.qr!iVhveqieql.qr!iDjhrihridjqiho.lthlveqiatkictxbidjqibldqr
dxidjqibhoaqtmiHdiqofxhorijhbidxivqialtqc e,ilogia dijhrinxtyihodxilr
djhoirehaqrilrisxrrhveq,iholrb ajilrivkirxigxhouidjqiv rhoqrrixc
vxhehouix didjqixheihrib ajilaaqeqtldqg,ilogihdriz lodhdkiaxorhgqtlvek
hoatqlrqg,ivqrhgqrisqtjlsrihbstx.houihdihoiz lehdkm


AJLSDQTi96miDjqiDtk-Nxtyrm

Vqrhgqrijqtijxhrdqgivxldr,iloiLbqthaloinjleqtihrix dnltgek
ghrdhou hrjqgivkijqtidtk-nxtyrmiRjqistqrqodridjqia thx riloxblekixcidjq
bxrdirxehgiblrxotkifxhohouinhdjixlyilogijqbsihoiaxordhd dhouidjq
axbseqdqgirjhsmiHdihrilrihcictxbidjqixsqoichqegilivthay-yheoinqtq
dtlorsxtdqgidxijqtiseloyrm

Djqidtk-nxtyriltqiselodqgivqdnqqoidjqicxtqblrdilogiblhoblrd,idjqibxrd
txxbkisltdixcidjqigqaymiDjqidhbvqtrivqoqldjiltqixcilisqa ehltirdtqoudj,
chddqgidxir rdlhoidjqinqhujdixciloilebxrdirxehgiblrrixcivthayilog
bxtdlt,irxbqidqoicqqdivkiqhujdirz ltq,ilogich.qihoijqhujdmiDjq
cx ogldhxoigxqrioxdisqoqdtldqidjqigqay,iv didjqiblrxotkihrichtbek
rqa tqgidxidjqir tclaqivkisxogqtx riyoqqrixcihtxoivtlahouihdixoilee
rhgqr,ilogiratqnhouihdigxnoidxidjqidhbvqtrmiXoidjqiceloyrihdihrialrqg
nhdjinxxg,ilogildidxsiaxbseqdqekiax.qtqgivkilieltuq,irexshou,ivlddqoqg
jldajnlkmiTqbx.houidjhrijldajinqiqpsxrqidjqiutqldidtk-sxdr,idnxiho
o bvqt,ilogiqlajixcirq.qtleivlttqer’ialslahdkmiNjqoioxdihoi rq,idjqk
ltqiyqsditqbltylvekiaeqlomiRxbqdhbqridjqkiltqisxehrjqginhdjirxlsrdxoq
logirlog,idheeidjqkirjhoqinhdjhoiehyqirhe.qtis oaj-vxnermiG thouidjq
ohujd-nldajqrirxbqiakohaleixegirlhextrinheeiatlneihodxidjqbilogiaxhe
djqbrqe.qrilnlkidjqtqicxtiliolsmiNjheqiqbsexkqgihoisxehrjhouidjqb—xoq
bloihoiqlajisxd,irhgqivkirhgq—blokiaxochgqodhleiaxbb ohaldhxoriltq
altthqgixo,ix.qtidjqihtxoiehsrmiHdihriliselaqilerxicxtistxcx og
bldjqbldhaleibqghdldhxomiHdinlrihoidjqieqcdijlogidtk-sxdixcidjqiSqz xg,
nhdjidjqirxlsrdxoqighehuqodekiahtaehouitx ogibq,idjldiHinlrichtrd
hoghtqadekirdt ayivkidjqitqbltylveqiclad,idjldihoiuqxbqdtkileeivxghqr
uehghouilexouidjqiakaexhg,ibkirxlsrdxoqicxtiqplbseq,inheeigqraqogictxb
lokisxhodihoistqahrqekidjqirlbqidhbqm

Tqbx.houidjqichtq-vxltgictxbidjqictxodixcidjqidtk-nxtyr,idjqivltq
blrxotkixcidjldirhgqihriqpsxrqg,isqoqdtldqgivkidjqidnxihtxoibx djrixc
djqic tolaqr,ightqadeki ogqtoqldjidjqisxdrmiDjqrqibx djriltqichddqg
nhdjijql.kigxxtrixcihtxomiDjqihodqorqijqldixcidjqichtqihristq.qodqg
ctxbiaxbb ohaldhouihdrqecidxidjqigqay,ivkibqlorixcilirjleexnitqrqt.xht
qpdqoghoui ogqtidjqiqodhtqihoaexrqgir tclaqixcidjqinxtyrmiVkilid ooqe
horqtdqgildidjqitqlt,idjhritqrqt.xhtihriyqsditqseqohrjqginhdjinldqtilr
clrdilrihdiq.lsxtldqrmiDjqtqiltqioxiqpdqtoleiajhboqkr;idjqkixsqoightqad
ctxbidjqitqltinleemiLogijqtqieqdi riuxivlayicxtilibxbqodm

Hdinlrilvx diohoqix’aexayildiohujdidjldidjqiSqz xg’ridtk-nxtyrinqtq
chtrdirdltdqgixoidjhristqrqodi.xkluqmiHdivqexouqgidxiRd vvidxix.qtrqq
djqiv rhoqrrm

“Leeitqlgkidjqtq?iXccijldaj,idjqo,ilogirdltdijqtmiKx iaxxy,ichtqidjq
nxtyrm”iDjhrinlriloiqlrkidjhou,icxtidjqialtsqodqtijlgivqqoidjt rdhou
jhrirjl.hourihodxidjqic tolaqidjtx ujx didjqislrrluqmiJqtqivqihdirlhg
djldihoilinjlehoui.xkluqidjqichtrdichtqihoidjqidtk-nxtyrijlridxivqicqg
cxtilidhbqinhdjinxxgmiLcdqtidjldioxinxxgihri rqg,iqpaqsdilrilibqlorixc
z hayihuohdhxoidxidjqirdlseqic qemiHoilinxtg,ilcdqtivqhouidthqgix d,
djqiathrs,irjth.qeeqgive vvqt,ioxnialeeqgiratlsrixticthddqtr,irdhee
axodlhoriaxorhgqtlveqixcihdri oad x ristxsqtdhqrmiDjqrqicthddqtricqqg
djqicelbqrmiEhyqiliseqdjxthaiv tohouibltdkt,ixtilirqec-axor bhou
bhrlodjtxsq,ixoaqihuohdqg,idjqinjleqir ssehqrijhrixnoic qeilogiv torivk
jhrixnoivxgkmiNx egidjldijqiaxor bqgijhrixnoirbxyq!icxtijhrirbxyqihr
jxtthveqidxihojleq,ilogihojleqihdikx ib rd,ilogioxdixoekidjld,iv dikx 
b rdieh.qihoihdicxtidjqidhbqmiHdijlriloi orsqlylveq,inheg,iJhogxxixgxt
lvx dihd,ir ajilriblkie tyihoidjqi.hahohdkixcic oqtqleisktqrmiHdirbqeer
ehyqidjqieqcdinhouixcidjqiglkixcif gubqod;ihdihriloiltu bqodicxtidjq
shdm

Vkibhgohujdidjqinxtyrinqtqihoic eeixsqtldhxomiNqinqtqiaeqltictxbidjq
altalrq;irlheijlgivqqoiblgq;idjqinhoginlrictqrjqohou;idjqinhegixaqlo
gltyoqrrinlrihodqorqmiV didjldigltyoqrrinlriehayqgi sivkidjqichqtaq
celbqr,injhajildihodqt.lericxtyqgicxtdjictxbidjqirxxdkice qr,ilog
hee bholdqgiq.qtkiexcdkitxsqihoidjqithuuhou,ilrinhdjidjqiclbqgiUtqqy
chtqmiDjqiv tohouirjhsigtx.qixo,ilrihcitqbxtrqeqrrekiaxbbhrrhxoqgidx
rxbqi.qouqc eigqqgmiRxidjqishdajilogir esj t-ctqhujdqgivthurixcidjq
vxegiJkgthxdq,iAlolthr,ihrr houictxbidjqhtibhgohujdijltvxtr,inhdjivtxlg
rjqqdrixcicelbqicxtirlher,ivxtqigxnoi sxoidjqiD tyhrjicthuldqr,ilog
cxegqgidjqbihoiaxocelutldhxorm

Djqijldaj,itqbx.qgictxbidjqidxsixcidjqinxtyr,ioxnilccxtgqgilinhgq
jqltdjihoictxodixcidjqbmiRdloghouixoidjhrinqtqidjqiDltdltqloirjlsqrixc
djqisluloijltsxxoqqtr,ilenlkridjqinjleq-rjhs’rirdxyqtrmiNhdjij uq
stxouqgisxeqridjqkishdajqgijhrrhouiblrrqrixcive vvqtihodxidjqiraleghou
sxdr,ixtirdhttqgi sidjqichtqrivqoqldj,idheeidjqirolykicelbqrigltdqg,
a tehou,ix dixcidjqigxxtridxialdajidjqbivkidjqicqqdmiDjqirbxyqitxeeqg
lnlkihoir eeqoijqlsrmiDxiq.qtkishdajixcidjqirjhsidjqtqinlrilishdajixc
djqivxhehouixhe,injhajirqqbqgileeiqluqtoqrridxieqlsihodxidjqhticlaqrm
Xssxrhdqidjqibx djixcidjqinxtyr,ixoidjqic tdjqtirhgqixcidjqinhgqinxxgqo
jqltdj,inlridjqinhogelrrmiDjhrirqt.qgicxtilirql-rxclmiJqtqiex ouqgidjq
nldaj,injqoioxdixdjqtnhrqiqbsexkqg,iexxyhouihodxidjqitqgijqldixcidjq
chtq,idheeidjqhtiqkqricqediraxtajqgihoidjqhtijqlgrmiDjqhtidlnok
cqld tqr,ioxnileeivquthbqginhdjirbxyqilogirnqld,idjqhtiblddqgivqltgr,
logidjqiaxodtlrdhouivltvlthaivtheehloakixcidjqhtidqqdj,ileeidjqrqinqtq
rdtlouqekitq.qleqgihoidjqialsthahx riqbvelwxohourixcidjqinxtyrmiLridjqk
olttldqgidxiqlajixdjqtidjqhti ojxekilg.qod tqr,idjqhtidleqrixcidqttxt
dxegihoinxtgrixcibhtdj;ilridjqhti oah.hehwqgiel ujdqticxtyqgi snltgr
x dixcidjqb,iehyqidjqicelbqrictxbidjqic tolaq;ilridxilogictx,ihoidjqht
ctxod,idjqijltsxxoqqtrinhegekiuqrdha eldqginhdjidjqhtij uqistxouqg
cxtyrilogighssqtr;ilridjqinhogijxneqgixo,ilogidjqirqlieqlsqg,ilogidjq
rjhsiutxloqgilogigh.qg,ilogikqdirdqlgclrdekirjxdijqtitqgijqeeic tdjqt
logic tdjqtihodxidjqivelayoqrrixcidjqirqlilogidjqiohujd,ilogiraxtoc eek
ajlbsqgidjqinjhdqivxoqihoijqtibx dj,ilogi.hahx rekirslditx ogijqtixo
leeirhgqr;idjqoidjqit rjhouiSqz xg,ictqhujdqginhdjirl.luqr,ilogielgqo
nhdjichtq,ilogiv tohouiliaxtsrq,ilogise ouhouihodxidjldivelayoqrrixc
gltyoqrr,irqqbqgidjqibldqthleiax odqtsltdixcijqtibxoxblohlaiaxbblogqt’r
rx em

Rxirqqbqgihdidxibq,ilriHirdxxgildijqtijqeb,ilogicxtiexouijx trirheqodek
u hgqgidjqinlkixcidjhrichtq-rjhsixoidjqirqlmiNtlssqg,icxtidjld
hodqt.le,ihoigltyoqrribkrqec,iHiv didjqivqddqtirlnidjqitqgoqrr,idjq
blgoqrr,idjqiujlrdehoqrrixcixdjqtrmiDjqiaxodho leirhujdixcidjqichqog
rjlsqrivqcxtqibq,ialsqthouijlecihoirbxyqilogijlecihoichtq,idjqrqild
elrdivquldiyhogtqgi.hrhxorihoibkirx e,irxirxxoilriHivquloidxikhqegidx
djldi olaax odlveqigtxnrhoqrrinjhajiq.qtinx egiaxbqix.qtibqildil
bhgohujdijqebm

V didjldiohujd,ihoisltdha elt,ilirdtlouqi(logiq.qtirhoaqihoqpsehalveq)
djhouixaa ttqgidxibqmiRdltdhouictxbilivthqcirdloghouireqqs,iHinlr
jxtthvekiaxorahx rixcirxbqdjhouicldleekintxoumiDjqifln-vxoqidheeqt
rbxdqibkirhgq,injhajieqloqgilulhordihd;ihoibkiqltrinlridjqiexnij bixc
rlher,if rdivquhoohouidxirjlyqihoidjqinhog;iHidjx ujdibkiqkqrinqtq
xsqo;iHinlrijleciaxorahx rixcis ddhouibkichouqtridxidjqiehgrilog
bqajlohaleekirdtqdajhouidjqbirdheeic tdjqtilsltdmiV d,irshdqixcilee
djhr,iHiax egirqqioxiaxbslrrivqcxtqibqidxirdqqtivk;idjx ujihdirqqbqg
v dilibho dqirhoaqiHijlgivqqoinldajhouidjqialtg,ivkidjqirdqlgkivhoolaeq
elbsihee bholdhouihdmiOxdjhouirqqbqgivqcxtqibqiv dilifqdiuexxb,ioxnilog
djqoiblgqiujlrdekivkicelrjqrixcitqgoqrrmi ssqtbxrdinlridjqihbstqrrhxo,
djldinjldq.qtirnhcd,it rjhouidjhouiHirdxxgixoinlrioxdirxib ajivx ogidx
lokijl.qoiljqlgilrit rjhouictxbileeijl.qorilrdqtomiLirdlty,ivqnhegqtqg
cqqehou,ilrixcigqldj,ialbqix.qtibqmiAxo. erh.qekibkijlogriutlrsqgidjq
dheeqt,iv dinhdjidjqiatlwkiaxoaqhdidjldidjqidheeqtinlr,irxbqjxn,iho
rxbqiqoajlodqginlk,iho.qtdqgmiBkiUxg!injldihridjqiblddqtinhdjibq?
djx ujdiHmiEx!ihoibkivthqcireqqsiHijlgid toqgibkrqecilvx d,iloginlr
ctxodhouidjqirjhs’rirdqto,inhdjibkivlayidxijqtistxnilogidjqiaxbslrrmiHo
loihordlodiHiclaqgivlay,if rdihoidhbqidxistq.qodidjqi.qrrqeictxbicekhou
 sihodxidjqinhog,ilogi.qtkistxvlvekialsrhwhouijqtmiJxniuelgilogijxn
utldqc eidjqitqehqcictxbidjhri oold tleijlee aholdhxoixcidjqiohujd,ilog
djqicldleiaxodhouqoakixcivqhouivtx ujdivkidjqieqq!

Exxyioxdidxxiexouihoidjqiclaqixcidjqichtq,iXiblo!iOq.qtigtqlbinhdjidjk
jlogixoidjqijqeb!iD toioxdidjkivlayidxidjqiaxbslrr;ilaaqsdidjqichtrd
jhodixcidjqijhdajhouidheeqt;ivqehq.qioxdidjqiltdhchahleichtq,injqoihdr
tqgoqrriblyqrileeidjhouriexxyiujlrdekmiDx-bxttxn,ihoidjqiold tleir o,
djqiryhqrinheeivqivthujd;idjxrqinjxiueltqgiehyqigq.herihoidjqicxtyhou
celbqr,idjqibxtoinheeirjxnihoicltixdjqt,ildieqlrdiuqodeqt,itqehqc;idjq
uexthx r,iuxegqo,iuelgir o,idjqixoekidt qielbs—leeixdjqtriv diehltr!

Oq.qtdjqeqrridjqir oijhgqrioxdi.htuhohl’riGhrbleiRnlbs,ioxtiTxbq’r
laa trqgiAlbsluol,ioxtinhgqiRljltl,ioxtileeidjqibheehxorixcibheqrixc
gqrqtdrilogixciuthqcrivqoqldjidjqibxxomiDjqir oijhgqrioxdidjqixaqlo,
njhajihridjqigltyirhgqixcidjhriqltdj,iloginjhajihridnxidjhtgrixcidjhr
qltdjmiRx,idjqtqcxtq,idjldibxtdleibloinjxijldjibxtqixcifxkidjloirxttxn
hoijhb,idjldibxtdleibloialooxdivqidt q—oxdidt q,ixti ogq.qexsqgmiNhdj
vxxyridjqirlbqmiDjqidt qrdixcileeibqoinlridjqiBloixciRxttxnr,ilogidjq
dt qrdixcileeivxxyrihriRxexbxo’r,ilogiQaaeqrhlrdqrihridjqichoqijlbbqtqg
rdqqeixcinxqmi“Leeihri.lohdkm”iLEEmiDjhrinhec einxtegijldjioxdiuxdijxeg
xci oajthrdhloiRxexbxo’rinhrgxbikqdmiV dijqinjxigxguqrijxrshdlerilog
flher,iloginleyriclrdiatxrrhouiutl.qkltgr,iloginx egitldjqtidleyixc
xsqtlridjloijqee;ialeeriAxnsqt,iKx ou,iSlrale,iTx rrql ,isxxtigq.her
leeixcirhayibqo;ilogidjtx ujx dilialtq-ctqqiehcqdhbqirnqltrivkiTlvqelhr
lrislrrhouinhrq,ilogidjqtqcxtqifxeek;—oxdidjldibloihrichddqgidxirhd
gxnoixoidxbv-rdxoqr,ilogivtqlyidjqiutqqoiglbsibx eginhdji ocldjxblvek
nxogtx riRxexbxom

V diq.qoiRxexbxo,ijqirlkr,i“djqibloidjldinlogqtqdjix dixcidjqinlkixc
 ogqtrdloghouirjleeitqblho”i(_hmqm_,iq.qoinjheqieh.hou)i“hoidjq
axoutquldhxoixcidjqigqlgm”iUh.qioxdidjkrqeci s,idjqo,idxichtq,ieqrdihd
ho.qtdidjqq,igqlgqoidjqq;ilricxtidjqidhbqihdighgibqmiDjqtqihrilinhrgxb
djldihrinxq;iv didjqtqihrilinxqidjldihriblgoqrrmiLogidjqtqihril
Aldryheeiqlueqihoirxbqirx eridjldialoilehyqigh.qigxnoihodxidjqivelayqrd
uxtuqr,ilogirxltix dixcidjqbilulhoilogivqaxbqiho.hrhveqihoidjqir ook
rslaqrmiLogiq.qoihcijqicxtiq.qticehqrinhdjhoidjqiuxtuq,idjldiuxtuqihr
hoidjqibx odlhor;irxidjldiq.qoihoijhriexnqrdirnxxsidjqibx odlhoiqlueq
hrirdheeijhujqtidjloixdjqtivhtgri sxoidjqiselho,iq.qoidjx ujidjqkirxltm


AJLSDQTi97miDjqiElbsm

Jlgikx igqraqogqgictxbidjqiSqz xg’ridtk-nxtyridxidjqiSqz xg’r
cxtqalrdeq,injqtqidjqixccig dkinldajinqtqireqqshou,icxtixoqirhoueq
bxbqodikx inx egijl.qilebxrdidjx ujdikx inqtqirdloghouihoirxbq
hee bholdqgirjthoqixcialoxohwqgiyhourilogiax orqeextrmiDjqtqidjqkielk
hoidjqhtidthlou eltixlyqoi.l edr,iqlajiblthoqtiliajhrqeeqgib dqoqrr;il
raxtqixcielbsricelrjhoui sxoijhrijxxgqgiqkqrm

Hoibqtajlodbqo,ixheicxtidjqirlhextihribxtqiraltaqidjloidjqibheyixc
z qqormiDxigtqrrihoidjqiglty,ilogiqldihoidjqiglty,ilogird bveqiho
gltyoqrridxijhrisleeqd,idjhrihrijhri r leiexdmiV didjqinjleqblo,ilrijq
rqqyridjqicxxgixciehujd,irxijqieh.qrihoiehujdmiJqiblyqrijhrivqtdjilo
Lelggho’rielbs,ilogielkrijhbigxnoihoihd;irxidjldihoidjqishdajhqrdiohujd
djqirjhs’rivelayij eeirdheeijx rqriloihee bholdhxom

Rqqinhdjinjldiqodhtqictqqgxbidjqinjleqbloidlyqrijhrijlogc eixc
elbsr—xcdqoiv dixegivxddeqrilogi.hler,idjx uj—dxidjqiaxssqtiaxxeqtild
djqidtk-nxtyr,ilogitqseqohrjqridjqbidjqtq,ilrib urixcileqildili.ldmiJq
v tor,idxx,idjqis tqrdixcixhe,ihoihdri oblo clad tqg,ilog,idjqtqcxtq,
 o.hdhldqgirdldq;ilice hgi oyoxnoidxirxelt,ie olt,ixtilrdtle
axodth.loaqrilrjxtqmiHdihrirnqqdilriqltekiutlrriv ddqtihoiLsthemiJq
uxqrilogij odricxtijhrixhe,irxilridxivqir tqixcihdrictqrjoqrrilog
uqo hoqoqrr,iq.qoilridjqidtl.qeeqtixoidjqistlhthqij odri sijhrixno
r ssqtixciulbqm


AJLSDQTi98miRdxnhouiGxnoilogiAeqlthoui sm

Letqlgkijlrihdivqqoitqeldqgijxnidjqiutqldieq.hldjloihrilcltixcc
gqrathqgictxbidjqiblrd-jqlg;ijxnijqihriajlrqgix.qtidjqinldqtkibxxtr,
logirel ujdqtqgihoidjqi.leeqkrixcidjqigqqs;ijxnijqihridjqoidxnqg
lexourhgqilogivqjqlgqg;ilogijxni(xoidjqisthoahseqinjhajiqodhdeqgidjq
jqlgrbloixcixegidxidjqiultbqodrihoinjhajidjqivqjqlgqginlriyheeqg)ijhr
utqldislggqgir tdx divqaxbqridjqistxsqtdkixcijhriqpqa dhxoqt;ijxn,iho
g qidhbq,ijqihriaxogqboqgidxidjqisxdr,ilog,iehyqiRjlgtlaj,iBqrjlaj,ilog
Lvqgoqux,ijhrirsqtblaqdh,ixhe,ilogivxoqislrri oraldjqgidjtx ujidjq
chtq;—v dioxnihditqblhoridxiaxoae gqidjqielrdiajlsdqtixcidjhrisltdixc
djqigqrathsdhxoivkitqjqltrhou—rhouhou,ihciHiblk—djqitxblodhaistxaqqghou
xcigqalodhouixccijhrixheihodxidjqialryrilogirdthyhouidjqbigxnoihodxidjq
jxeg,injqtqixoaqilulhoieq.hldjloitqd toridxijhrioldh.qistxc oghdhqr,
rehghouilexouivqoqldjidjqir tclaqilrivqcxtq;iv d,ilelr!ioq.qtibxtqidx
thrqilogivexnm

Njheqirdheeinltb,idjqixhe,iehyqijxdis oaj,ihritqaqh.qgihodxidjq
rhp-vlttqeialryr;iloginjheq,isqtjlsr,idjqirjhsihrishdajhouilogitxeehou
djhrinlkilogidjldihoidjqibhgohujdirql,idjqiqoxtbx rialryriltqireqnqg
tx ogilogijqlgqgix.qt,iqogicxtiqog,ilogirxbqdhbqrisqthex rekiraxxd
latxrridjqirehssqtkigqay,iehyqirxiblokielogirehgqr,idheeildielrd
blo-jlogeqgilogirdlkqgihoidjqhtiax trq;ilogileeitx ogidjqijxxsr,itls,
tls,iuxilriblokijlbbqtrilrialoiselki sxoidjqb,icxtioxn,i_qpixcchahx_,
q.qtkirlhextihriliaxxsqtm

Ldieqoudj,injqoidjqielrdishodihrialryqg,ilogileeihriaxxe,idjqoidjq
utqldijldajnlkriltqi orqleqg,idjqivxnqerixcidjqirjhsiltqidjtxnoixsqo,
logigxnoiuxidjqialryridxidjqhticholeitqrdihoidjqirqlmiDjhrigxoq,idjq
jldajqriltqitqselaqg,ilogijqtbqdhaleekiaexrqg,iehyqiliaexrqdinleeqgi sm

Hoidjqirsqtbichrjqtk,idjhrihrisqtjlsrixoqixcidjqibxrditqbltylveq
hoahgqodrihoileeidjqiv rhoqrrixcinjlehoumiXoqiglkidjqiseloyrirdtqlb
nhdjictqrjqdrixcivexxgilogixhe;ixoidjqirlatqgiz ltdqt-gqayiqoxtbx r
blrrqrixcidjqinjleq’rijqlgiltqistxcloqekisheqg;iutqldit rdkialryriehq
lvx d,ilrihoilivtqnqtkikltg;idjqirbxyqictxbidjqidtk-nxtyrijlrivqrxxdqg
leeidjqiv enltyr;idjqiblthoqtriuxilvx dir cc rqginhdji oad x roqrr;idjq
qodhtqirjhsirqqbriutqldieq.hldjloijhbrqec;injheqixoileeijlogridjqigho
hrigqlcqohoum

V diliglkixtidnxilcdqt,ikx iexxyilvx dikx ,ilogisthayikx tiqltrihoidjhr
rqec-rlbqirjhs;iloginqtqihdioxdicxtidjqidqee-dleqivxldrilogidtk-nxtyr,
kx inx egileeiv dirnqltikx idtxgirxbqirheqodibqtajlodi.qrrqe,inhdjil
bxrdirat s ex rekioqldiaxbblogqtmiDjqi oblo clad tqgirsqtbixhe
sxrrqrrqrilirhou eltekiaeqlorhoui.htd qmiDjhrihridjqitqlrxoinjkidjq
gqayrioq.qtiexxyirxinjhdqilrif rdilcdqtinjldidjqkialeeiloilcclhtixc
xhemiVqrhgqr,ictxbidjqilrjqrixcidjqiv toqgiratlsrixcidjqinjleq,il
sxdqodiekqihritqlghekiblgq;iloginjqoq.qtilokilgjqrh.qoqrrictxbidjqivlay
xcidjqinjleqitqblhoriaehouhouidxidjqirhgq,idjldiekqiz hayek
qpdqtbholdqrihdmiJlogriuxighehuqodekilexouidjqiv enltyr,iloginhdj
v ayqdrixcinldqtilogitluritqrdxtqidjqbidxidjqhtic eeidhghoqrrmiDjqirxxd
hrivt rjqgictxbidjqiexnqtithuuhoumiLeeidjqio bqtx rihbseqbqodrinjhaj
jl.qivqqoihoi rqiltqiehyqnhrqiclhdjc eekiaeqlorqgilogis dilnlkmiDjq
utqldijldajihrirat vvqgilogiselaqgi sxoidjqidtk-nxtyr,iaxbseqdqek
jhghouidjqisxdr;iq.qtkialryihrix dixcirhujd;ileeidlayeqriltqiaxheqgiho
 orqqoioxxyr;iloginjqoivkidjqiaxbvhoqgilogirhb edloqx rihog rdtkixc
lebxrdidjqiqodhtqirjhs’riaxbslok,idjqinjxeqixcidjhriaxorahqodhx rig dk
hrildielrdiaxoae gqg,idjqoidjqiatqnidjqbrqe.qristxaqqgidxidjqhtixno
lve dhxor;irjhcdidjqbrqe.qrictxbidxsidxidxq;ilogicholeekihrr qidxidjq
hbbla eldqigqay,ictqrjilogileeiluexn,ilrivthgqutxxbrioqn-eqlsqgictxb
x didjqiglhodhqrdiJxeelogm

Oxn,inhdjiqeldqgirdqs,idjqkislaqidjqiseloyrihoidnxrilogidjtqqr,ilog
j bxtx rekighrax trqixcisltextr,irxclr,ialtsqdr,ilogichoqialbvthar;
stxsxrqidxibldidjqigqay;idjhoyixcijl.houijlouhouidxidjqidxs;ixvfqadioxd
dxidlyhouidqlivkibxxoehujdixoidjqishlwwlixcidjqicxtqalrdeqmiDxijhodidx
r ajib ryqgiblthoqtrixcixhe,ilogivxoq,ilogive vvqt,inqtqiehddeqirjxtd
xcil glahdkmiDjqkiyoxnioxdidjqidjhouikx ighrdlodekilee gqidxmiLnlk,ilog
vthoui riolsyhor!

V diblty:ilexcdidjqtq,ildidjqidjtqqiblrdijqlgr,irdlogidjtqqibqoihodqod
xoirskhouix dibxtqinjleqr,injhaj,ihcial ujd,ihocleehvekinheeilulhoirxhe
djqixegixlyqoic tohd tq,ilogigtxsildieqlrdixoqirbleeiutqlrq-rsxd
rxbqnjqtqmiKqr;ilogiblokihridjqidhbq,injqo,ilcdqtidjqirq.qtqrd
 ohodqtt sdqgielvxtr,injhajiyoxnioxiohujd;iaxodho houirdtlhujdidjtx uj
cxtiohoqdk-rhpijx tr;injqoictxbidjqivxld,injqtqidjqkijl.qirnqeeqgidjqht
nthrdrinhdjileeiglkitxnhouixoidjqiEhoq,—djqkixoekirdqsidxidjqigqayidx
alttki.lrdiajlhor,ilogijql.qidjqijql.kinhogelrr,ilogia dilogirelrj,
kql,ilogihoidjqhti.qtkirnqldhouridxivqirbxyqgilogiv toqgiloqnivkidjq
axbvhoqgichtqrixcidjqiqz ldxthleir oilogidjqiqz ldxthleidtk-nxtyr;
njqo,ixoidjqijqqeixcileeidjhr,idjqkijl.qicholeekivqrdhttqgidjqbrqe.qr
dxiaeqlorqidjqirjhs,ilogiblyqilirsxdeqrriglhtkitxxbixcihd;iblokihridjq
dhbqidjqisxxticqeexnr,if rdiv ddxohouidjqioqayrixcidjqhtiaeqloictxayr,
ltqirdltdeqgivkidjqiatkixci“Djqtqirjqivexnr!”ilogilnlkidjqkicekidx
chujdiloxdjqtinjleq,ilogiuxidjtx ujidjqinjxeqinqltkidjhouilulhomiXj!ibk
cthqogr,iv didjhrihriblo-yheehou!iKqdidjhrihriehcqmiCxtijltgekijl.qinq
bxtdlerivkiexouidxhehouriqpdtladqgictxbidjhrinxteg’ri.lrdiv eyihdr
rbleeiv di.le lveqirsqtb;ilogidjqo,inhdjinqltkisldhqoaq,iaeqlorqg
x trqe.qrictxbihdrigqcheqbqodr,ilogieqltoqgidxieh.qijqtqihoiaeqlo
dlvqtolaeqrixcidjqirx e;ijltgekihridjhrigxoq,injqo—_Djqtqirjq
vexnr!_—djqiujxrdihrirsx dqgi s,ilogilnlkinqirlheidxichujdirxbqixdjqt
nxteg,ilogiuxidjtx ujikx ouiehcq’rixegitx dhoqilulhom

Xj!idjqibqdqbsrkajxrhr!iXj!iSkdjluxtlr,idjldihoivthujdiUtqqaq,idnx
djx rlogikqltrilux,ighgighq,irxiuxxg,irxinhrq,irxibheg;iHirlheqginhdj
djqqilexouidjqiSqt .hloiaxlrdielrdi.xkluq—log,icxxehrjilriHilb,idl ujd
djqq,iliutqqoirhbseqivxk,ijxnidxirsehaqilitxsq!


AJLSDQTi99miDjqiGx vexxom

QtqioxnihdijlrivqqoitqeldqgijxniLjlvinlrinxodidxislaqijhriz ltdqt-gqay,
dlyhouitqu eltid torildiqhdjqtiehbhd,idjqivhoolaeqilogiblhoblrd;iv diho
djqib edhsehahdkixcixdjqtidjhouritqz hthouiolttldhxoihdijlrioxdivqqo
lggqgijxnidjldirxbqdhbqrihoidjqrqinleyr,injqoibxrdise ouqgihoijhribxxg,
jqinlrinxodidxisl rqihoid toildiqlajirsxd,ilogirdlogidjqtqirdtlouqek
qkqhouidjqisltdha eltixvfqadivqcxtqijhbmiNjqoijqijledqgivqcxtqidjq
vhoolaeq,inhdjijhriueloaqiclrdqoqgixoidjqisxhodqgioqqgeqihoidjq
axbslrr,idjldiueloaqirjxdiehyqilifl.qehoinhdjidjqisxhodqgihodqorhdkixc
jhris tsxrq;iloginjqoitqr bhouijhrinleyijqilulhoisl rqgivqcxtqidjq
blhoblrd,idjqo,ilridjqirlbqith.qdqgiueloaqiclrdqoqgi sxoidjqith.qdqg
uxegiaxhoidjqtq,ijqirdheeinxtqidjqirlbqilrsqadixciolheqgichtboqrr,ixoek
glrjqginhdjiliaqtdlhoinhegiexouhou,ihcioxdijxsqc eoqrrm

V dixoqibxtohou,id tohouidxislrridjqigx vexxo,ijqirqqbqgidxivqioqnek
lddtladqgivkidjqirdtlouqichu tqrilogihorathsdhxorirdlbsqgixoihd,ilr
djx ujioxnicxtidjqichtrdidhbqivquhoohouidxihodqtstqdicxtijhbrqeciho
rxbqibxoxblohlainlkinjldq.qtirhuohchaloaqibhujdie tyihoidjqbmiLogirxbq
aqtdlhoirhuohchaloaqie tyrihoileeidjhour,iqerqileeidjhouriltqiehddeq
nxtdj,ilogidjqitx oginxtegihdrqeciv diloiqbsdkiahsjqt,iqpaqsdidxirqee
vkidjqialtdexlg,ilridjqkigxijheerilvx diVxrdxo,idxicheei sirxbqibxtlrr
hoidjqiBheykiNlkm

Oxnidjhrigx vexxoinlrixcis tqrd,i.htuhoiuxeg,itlyqgirxbqnjqtqix dixc
djqijqltdixciuxtuqx rijheer,injqoaq,iqlrdiloginqrd,ix.qtiuxegqoirlogr,
djqijqlg-nldqtrixciblokiliSladxe ricexnrmiLogidjx ujioxniolheqgilbhgrd
leeidjqit rdhoqrrixcihtxoivxedrilogidjqi.qtghuthrixciaxssqtirshyqr,
kqd,i odx ajlveqilogihbbla eldqidxilokicx eoqrr,ihdirdheeistqrqt.qgihdr
Z hdxiuexnmiOxt,idjx ujiselaqgilbxourdilit djeqrriatqnilogiq.qtkijx t
slrrqgivkit djeqrrijlogr,ilogidjtx ujidjqieh.qexouiohujdrirjtx gqginhdj
djhayigltyoqrrinjhajibhujdiax.qtilokishecqthouilsstxlaj,ioq.qtdjqeqrr
q.qtkir othrqicx ogidjqigx vexxoinjqtqidjqir orqdieqcdihdielrdmiCxtihd
nlrirqdilsltdilogirloadhchqgidxixoqilnq-rdthyhouiqog;ilogijxnq.qt
nlodxoihoidjqhtirlhextinlkr,ixoqilogilee,idjqiblthoqtritq.qtqgihdilr
djqinjhdqinjleq’ridlehrblomiRxbqdhbqridjqkidleyqgihdix.qtihoidjqinqltk
nldajivkiohujd,inxogqthouinjxrqihdinlridxivqildielrd,iloginjqdjqtijq
nx egiq.qtieh.qidxirsqogihdm

OxnidjxrqioxveqiuxegqoiaxhorixciRx djiLbqthaliltqilribqglerixcidjqir o
logidtxshaidxyqo-shqaqrmiJqtqislebr,ileslalr,ilogi.xealoxqr;ir o’r
ghryrilogirdltr;iqaehsdhar,ijxtor-xc-seqodk,ilogithajivlooqtrinl.hou,
ltqihoie p thlodistxc rhxoirdlbsqg;irxidjldidjqistqahx riuxegirqqbr
lebxrdidxigqth.qiloilggqgistqahx roqrrilogiqojloahouiuexthqr,ivk
slrrhouidjtx ujidjxrqicloakibhodr,irxiRslohrjekisxqdham

Hdirxiajloaqgidjldidjqigx vexxoixcidjqiSqz xginlrilibxrdinqledjk
qplbseqixcidjqrqidjhourmiXoihdritx ogivxtgqtihdivxtqidjqieqddqtr,
TQS VEHALiGQEiQA LGXT:iZ HDXmiRxidjhrivthujdiaxhoialbqictxbiliax odtk
selodqgihoidjqibhggeqixcidjqinxteg,ilogivqoqldjidjqiutqldiqz ldxt,ilog
olbqgilcdqtihd;ilogihdijlgivqqoialrdibhgnlki sidjqiLogqr,ihoidjq
 onlohouiaehbqidjldiyoxnrioxil d bomiWxoqgivkidjxrqieqddqtrikx irlnidjq
ehyqoqrrixcidjtqqiLogqr’ir bbhdr;ictxbixoqilicelbq;ilidxnqtixoiloxdjqt;
xoidjqidjhtgiliatxnhouiaxay;injheqiltajhouix.qtileeinlrilirqubqodixc
djqisltdhdhxoqgiwxghla,idjqirhuorileeibltyqginhdjidjqhti r le
alvlehrdhar,ilogidjqiyqkrdxoqir oiqodqthouidjqiqz hoxadhleisxhodild
Ehvtlm

Vqcxtqidjhriqz ldxthleiaxho,iLjlv,ioxdi oxvrqt.qgivkixdjqtr,inlrioxn
sl rhoum

“Djqtq’rirxbqdjhouiq.qtiquxdhrdhaleihoibx odlho-dxsrilogidxnqtr,ilog
leeixdjqtiutlogilogiexcdkidjhour;iexxyijqtq,—djtqqisqlyrilristx gilr
E ahcqtmiDjqichtbidxnqt,idjldihriLjlv;idjqi.xealox,idjldihriLjlv;idjq
ax tluqx r,idjqi ogl odqg,ilogi.hadxthx ricxne,idjld,idxx,ihriLjlv;ilee
ltqiLjlv;ilogidjhritx ogiuxegihriv didjqihbluqixcidjqitx ogqtiuexvq,
njhaj,iehyqilibluhahlo’riuelrr,idxiqlajilogiq.qtkibloihoid toiv d
bhttxtrivlayijhrixnoibkrdqthx rirqecmiUtqldislhor,irbleeiulhoricxt
djxrqinjxilryidjqinxtegidxirxe.qidjqb;ihdialooxdirxe.qihdrqecmiBqdjhoyr
oxnidjhriaxhoqgir oinqltrilit ggkiclaq;iv dirqq!ilkq,ijqiqodqtridjq
rhuoixcirdxtbr,idjqiqz hoxp!ilogiv dirhpibxodjrivqcxtqijqinjqqeqgix d
xcilicxtbqtiqz hoxpildiLthqr!iCtxbirdxtbidxirdxtb!iRxivqihd,idjqomiVxto
hoidjtxqr,i’dhrichdidjldibloirjx egieh.qihoislhorilogighqihoislour!iRx
vqihd,idjqo!iJqtq’rirdx dird ccicxtinxqidxinxtyixomiRxivqihd,idjqom”

“Oxiclhtkichouqtrialoijl.qistqrrqgidjqiuxeg,iv digq.he’riaelnrib rd
jl.qieqcdidjqhtibx eghouridjqtqirhoaqikqrdqtglk,”ib tb tqgiRdltv ayidx
jhbrqec,ieqlohouilulhordidjqiv enltyrmi“Djqixegibloirqqbridxitqlg
Vqerjlwwlt’rilnc einthdhoumiHijl.qioq.qtibltyqgidjqiaxhoihorsqadhouekm
Jqiuxqrivqexn;ieqdibqitqlgmiLigltyi.leeqkivqdnqqoidjtqqibhujdk,
jql.qo-lvhghouisqlyr,idjldilebxrdirqqbidjqiDthohdk,ihoirxbqiclhod
qltdjekirkbvxemiRxihoidjhri.leqixciGqldj,iUxgiuhtgri ritx og;ilogix.qt
leeix tiuexxb,idjqir oixciThujdqx roqrrirdheeirjhoqrilivqlaxoilogil
jxsqmiHcinqivqogigxnoix tiqkqr,idjqigltyi.leqirjxnrijqtibx egkirxhe;
v dihcinqiehcdidjqb,idjqivthujdir oibqqdrix tiueloaqijlecinlk,idx
ajqqtmiKqd,ixj,idjqiutqldir oihrioxichpd tq;ilogihc,ildibhgohujd,inq
nx egiclhoiroldajirxbqirnqqdirxelaqictxbijhb,inqiulwqicxtijhbihoi.lho!
Djhriaxhoirsqlyrinhrqek,ibhegek,idt ek,iv dirdheeirlgekidxibqmiHinhee
z hdihd,ieqrdiDt djirjlyqibqiclerqekm”

“Djqtqioxn’ridjqixegiBxu e,”irxehexz hwqgiRd vvivkidjqidtk-nxtyr,i“jq’r
vqqoidnhuuhouihd;ilogidjqtqiuxqriRdltv ayictxbidjqirlbq,ilogivxdjinhdj
claqrinjhajiHirjx egirlkibhujdivqirxbqnjqtqinhdjhoiohoqicldjxbriexoum
Logileeictxbiexxyhouildilishqaqixciuxeg,injhajighgiHijl.qihdioxnixo
OqutxiJheeixtihoiAxtelqt’riJxxy,iH’gioxdiexxyildihdi.qtkiexouiqtq
rsqoghouihdmiJ bsj!ihoibkisxxt,ihorhuohchalodixshohxo,iHitqultgidjhrilr
z qqtmiHijl.qirqqoigx vexxorivqcxtqioxnihoibki.xkluhour;ikx tigx vexxor
xcixegiRslho,ikx tigx vexxorixciSqt ,ikx tigx vexxorixciAjheh,ikx t
gx vexxorixciVxeh.hl,ikx tigx vexxorixciSxslklo;inhdjiseqodkixciuxeg
bxhgxtqrilogishrdxeqr,ilogifxqr,ilogijlecifxqr,ilogiz ltdqtifxqrmiNjld
djqoirjx egidjqtqivqihoidjhrigx vexxoixcidjqiQz ldxtidjldihrirxiyheehou
nxogqtc e?iVkiUxeaxogl!ieqdibqitqlgihdixoaqmiJleexl!ijqtq’rirhuorilog
nxogqtridt ek!iDjld,ioxn,ihrinjldixegiVxnghdajihoijhriQshdxbqialeeridjq
wxghla,iloginjldibkileblolaivqexnialeerighddxmiH’eeiuqdidjqileblolailog
lriHijl.qijqltgigq.herialoivqitlhrqginhdjiGlvxee’rilthdjbqdha,iH’eeidtk
bkijlogilditlhrhouilibqlohouix dixcidjqrqiz qqtia t.ha qrijqtqinhdjidjq
Blrrlaj rqddrialeqogltmiJqtq’ridjqivxxymiEqd’rirqqioxnmiRhuorilog
nxogqtr;ilogidjqir o,ijq’rilenlkrilbxoui’qbmiJqb,ijqb,ijqb;ijqtqidjqk
ltq—jqtqidjqkiux—leeileh.q:—Lthqr,ixtidjqiTlb;iDl t r,ixtidjqiV eeilog
Fhbhbh!ijqtq’riUqbhohijhbrqec,ixtidjqiDnhormiNqee;idjqir oijqinjqqer
lbxoui’qbmiLkq,ijqtqixoidjqiaxhoijq’rif rdiatxrrhouidjqidjtqrjxeg
vqdnqqoidnxixcidnqe.qirhddhou-txxbrileeihoilithoumiVxxy!ikx iehqidjqtq;
djqicladihr,ikx ivxxyrib rdiyoxnikx tiselaqrmiKx ’eeigxidxiuh.qi ridjq
vltqinxtgrilogicladr,iv dinqiaxbqihoidxir ssekidjqidjx ujdrmiDjld’ribk
rbleeiqpsqthqoaq,irxicltilridjqiBlrrlaj rqddrialeqoglt,ilogiVxnghdaj’r
ol.huldxt,ilogiGlvxee’rilthdjbqdhaiuxmiRhuoriloginxogqtr,iqj?iShdkihc
djqtqihrioxdjhouinxogqtc eihoirhuor,ilogirhuohchalodihoinxogqtr!
Djqtq’riliae qirxbqnjqtq;inlhdilivhd;ijhrd—jlty!iVkiFx.q,iHijl.qihd!
Exxyikx ,iGx vexxo,ikx tiwxghlaijqtqihridjqiehcqixcibloihoixoqitx og
ajlsdqt;ilogioxniH’eeitqlgihdixcc,irdtlhujdix dixcidjqivxxymiAxbq,
Leblolay!iDxivquho:idjqtq’riLthqr,ixtidjqiTlb—eqajqtx rigxu,ijqivquqdr
 r;idjqo,iDl t r,ixtidjqiV ee—jqiv bsri ridjqichtrdidjhou;idjqoiUqbhoh,
xtidjqiDnhor—djldihr,i.htd qilogi.haq;inqidtkidxitqlaji.htd q,injqoiex!
axbqriAloaqtidjqiAtlv,ilogigtluri rivlay;ilogijqtq,iuxhouictxbi.htd q,
Eqx,ilitxlthouiEhxo,iehqrihoidjqisldj—jqiuh.qrilicqnichqtaqivhdqrilog
r tekiglvrinhdjijhrisln;inqiqralsq,ilogijlhei.htux,idjqi.htuho!idjld’r
x tichtrdiex.q;inqiblttkilogidjhoyidxivqijlsskicxtilkq,injqoisxsiaxbqr
Ehvtl,ixtidjqiRaleqr—jlsshoqrrinqhujqgilogicx oginlodhou;iloginjheqinq
ltqi.qtkirlgilvx didjld,iExtg!ijxninqir ggqoekif bs,ilriRaxtshx,ixtidjq
Raxtshxo,irdhouri rihoidjqitqlt;inqiltqia thouidjqinx og,injqoinjlou
axbqidjqilttxnrileeitx og;iRluhddlth r,ixtidjqiLtajqt,ihrilb rhou
jhbrqecmiLrinqise ayix didjqirjlcdr,irdlogilrhgq!ijqtq’ridjq
vlddqthou-tlb,iAlsthaxto r,ixtidjqiUxld;ic eeidhed,ijqiaxbqrit rjhou,
logijqlgexouinqiltqidxrrqg;injqoiLz lth r,ixtidjqiNldqt-vqltqt,isx tr
x dijhrinjxeqigqe uqilogigtxnori r;ilogidxinhogi sinhdjiShraqr,ixtidjq
Chrjqr,inqireqqsmiDjqtq’rilirqtbxoioxn,inthdihoijhujijql.qo,ilogidjq
r oiuxqridjtx ujihdiq.qtkikqlt,ilogikqdiaxbqrix dixcihdileeileh.qilog
jqltdkmiFxeehekijq,ilexcdidjqtq,injqqeridjtx ujidxheilogidtx veq;ilog
rx,ilexnijqtq,igxqrifxeekiRd vvmiXj,ifxeek’ridjqinxtgicxtilkq!iLghq ,
Gx vexxo!iV dirdxs;ijqtqiaxbqriehddeqiYhou-Sxrd;igxguqitx ogidjq
dtk-nxtyr,ioxn,ilogieqd’rijqltinjldijq’eeijl.qidxirlkmiDjqtq;ijq’r
vqcxtqihd;ijq’eeix dinhdjirxbqdjhouistqrqodekmiRx,irx;ijq’rivquhoohoum”

“Hirqqioxdjhouijqtq,iv dilitx ogidjhouiblgqixciuxeg,iloginjxq.qtitlhrqr
liaqtdlhoinjleq,idjhritx ogidjhouivqexouridxijhbmiRx,injld’rileeidjhr
rdlthouivqqoilvx d?iHdihrinxtdjirhpdqqoigxeeltr,idjld’ridt q;ilogild
dnxiaqodridjqiahult,idjld’riohoqij ogtqgilogirhpdkiahultrmiHinxo’d
rbxyqightdkishsqriehyqiRd vv,iv diHiehyqiahultr,ilogijqtq’riohoq
j ogtqgilogirhpdkixcidjqb;irxijqtqiuxqriCelryilexcdidxirski’qbix dm”

“RjleeiHialeeidjldinhrqixticxxehrj,ioxn;ihcihdivqitqleekinhrqihdijlril
cxxehrjiexxyidxihd;ikqd,ihcihdivqitqleekicxxehrj,idjqoijlrihdilirxtdixc
nhrqhrjiexxyidxihdmiV d,il.lrd;ijqtqiaxbqrix tixegiBlopblo—djqixeg
jqltrq-gth.qt,ijqib rdijl.qivqqo,idjldihr,ivqcxtqijqidxxyidxidjqirqlm
Jqie ccri sivqcxtqidjqigx vexxo;ijleexl,ilogiuxqritx ogixoidjqixdjqt
rhgqixcidjqiblrd;injk,idjqtq’rilijxtrq-rjxqiolheqgixoidjldirhgq;ilog
oxnijq’rivlayilulho;injldigxqridjldibqlo?iJlty!ijq’rib ddqthou—.xhaq
ehyqiloixeginxto-x diaxccqq-bheemiSthayiqltr,ilogiehrdqo!”

“HcidjqiNjhdqiNjleqivqitlhrqg,ihdib rdivqihoilibxodjilogiliglk,injqo
djqir oirdlogrihoirxbqixoqixcidjqrqirhuormiH’.qird ghqgirhuor,ilogiyoxn
djqhtibltyr;idjqkinqtqidl ujdibqidnxiraxtqikqltrilux,ivkidjqixeginhdaj
hoiAxsqojluqomiOxn,ihoinjldirhuoinheeidjqir oidjqoivq?iDjqijxtrq-rjxq
rhuo;icxtidjqtqihdihr,ithujdixssxrhdqidjqiuxegmiLoginjld’ridjq
jxtrq-rjxqirhuo?iDjqiehxoihridjqijxtrq-rjxqirhuo—djqitxlthouilog
gq.x thouiehxomiRjhs,ixegirjhs!ibkixegijqlgirjlyqridxidjhoyixcidjqqm”

“Djqtq’riloxdjqtitqogqthouioxn;iv dirdheeixoqidqpdmiLeeirxtdrixcibqoiho
xoqiyhogixcinxteg,ikx irqqmiGxguqilulho!ijqtqiaxbqriZ qqz qu—lee
dlddxxhou—exxyriehyqidjqirhuorixcidjqiWxghlaijhbrqecmiNjldirlkridjq
Aloohvle?iLriHieh.qijq’riaxbslthouioxdqr;iexxyhouildijhridjhujivxoq;
djhoyridjqir oihrihoidjqidjhuj,ixtihoidjqialec,ixtihoidjqivxnqer,iH
r ssxrq,ilridjqixeginxbqoidleyiR tuqxo’riLrdtxoxbkihoidjqivlayiax odtkm
LogivkiFx.q,ijq’ricx ogirxbqdjhouidjqtqihoidjqi.hahohdkixcijhridjhuj—H
u qrrihd’riRluhddlth r,ixtidjqiLtajqtmiOx:ijqigxo’diyoxninjldidxiblyq
xcidjqigx vexxo;ijqidlyqrihdicxtiloixegiv ddxoixccirxbqiyhou’r
dtxnrqtrmiV d,ilrhgqilulho!ijqtqiaxbqridjldiujxrd-gq.he,iCqgleelj;idlhe
axheqgix dixcirhujdilri r le,ixly bihoidjqidxqrixcijhris bsrilri r lem
Njldigxqrijqirlk,inhdjidjldiexxyixcijhr?iLj,ixoekiblyqrilirhuoidxidjq
rhuoilogivxnrijhbrqec;idjqtqihrilir oixoidjqiaxho—chtqinxtrjhssqt,
gqsqogi sxoihdmiJx!ibxtqilogibxtqmiDjhrinlkiaxbqriShs—sxxtivxk!inx eg
jqijlgighqg,ixtiH;ijq’rijlecijxtthveqidxibqmiJqidxxijlrivqqoinldajhou
leeixcidjqrqihodqtstqdqtr—bkrqecihoae gqg—logiexxyioxn,ijqiaxbqridx
tqlg,inhdjidjldi oqltdjekihghxdiclaqmiRdlogilnlkilulhoilogijqltijhbm
Jlty!”

“Hiexxy,ikx iexxy,ijqiexxyr;inqiexxy,ikqiexxy,idjqkiexxym”

“ sxoibkirx e,ijq’rivqqoird gkhouiB ttlk’riUtlbblt!iHbstx.houijhribhog,
sxxticqeexn!iV dinjld’ridjldijqirlkrioxn—jhrd!”

“Hiexxy,ikx iexxy,ijqiexxyr;inqiexxy,ikqiexxy,idjqkiexxym”

“Njk,ijq’riuqddhouihdivkijqltd—jhrd!ilulhom”

“Hiexxy,ikx iexxy,ijqiexxyr;inqiexxy,ikqiexxy,idjqkiexxym”

“Nqee,idjld’ric ookm”

“LogiH,ikx ,ilogijq;iloginq,ikq,ilogidjqk,iltqileeivldr;ilogiH’bil
atxn,iqrsqahleekinjqoiHirdlogil’dxsixcidjhrishoqidtqqijqtqmiAln!ialn!
aln!ialn!ialn!ialn!iLho’diHiliatxn?iLoginjqtq’ridjqiraltq-atxn?iDjqtq
jqirdlogr;idnxivxoqrird ayihodxilislhtixcixegidtxnrqtr,ilogidnxibxtq
sxyqgihodxidjqireqq.qrixciloixegiflayqdm”

“Nxogqtihcijqibqloribq?—axbsehbqodltk!—sxxtielg!—Hiax egiuxijlou
bkrqecmiLokinlk,icxtidjqistqrqod,iH’eeiz hdiShs’ri.hahohdkmiHialoirdlog
djqitqrd,icxtidjqkijl.qiselhoinhdr;iv dijq’ridxxiatlwk-nhddkicxtibk
rlohdkmiRx,irx,iHieql.qijhbib ddqthoum”

“Jqtq’ridjqirjhs’riol.qe,idjhrigx vexxoijqtq,ilogidjqkiltqileeixoichtq
dxi oratqnihdmiV d,i oratqnikx tiol.qe,iloginjld’ridjqiaxorqz qoaq?
Djqoilulho,ihcihdirdlkrijqtq,idjldihri uek,idxx,icxtinjqoil ujd’r
olheqgidxidjqiblrdihd’rilirhuoidjldidjhouriutxnigqrsqtldqmiJl,ijl!ixeg
Ljlv!idjqiNjhdqiNjleq;ijq’eeiolheikq!iDjhrihrilishoqidtqqmiBkicldjqt,
hoixegiDxeelogiax odk,ia digxnoilishoqidtqqixoaq,ilogicx ogilirhe.qt
thouiutxnoix.qtihoihd;irxbqixegigltyqk’rinqgghouithoumiJxnighgihdiuqd
djqtq?iLogirxidjqk’eeirlkihoidjqitqr ttqadhxo,injqoidjqkiaxbqidxichrj
 sidjhrixegiblrd,ilogichogiligx vexxoiexguqgihoihd,inhdjivqggqgixkrdqtr
cxtidjqirjluukivltymiXj,idjqiuxeg!idjqistqahx r,istqahx r,iuxeg!idjq
utqqoibhrqt’eeijxltgikqirxxo!iJhrj!ijhrj!iUxgiuxqri’bxouidjqinxtegr
velayvqttkhoumiAxxy!ijx,iaxxy!ilogiaxxyi r!iFqook!ijqk,ijqk,ijqk,ijqk,
jqk,iFqook,iFqook!ilogiuqdikx tijxq-alyqigxoq!”


AJLSDQTi100miEquilogiLtbm

DjqiSqz xg,ixciOlod ayqd,iBqqdridjqiRlb qeiQogqtvk,ixciExogxom

“Rjhs,iljxk!iJlrdirqqoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”

RxiathqgiLjlv,ixoaqibxtqijlhehouilirjhsirjxnhouiQouehrjiaxex tr,
vqlthouigxnoi ogqtidjqirdqtomiDt bsqdidxibx dj,idjqixegibloinlr
rdloghouihoijhrijxhrdqgiz ltdqt-vxld,ijhrih.xtkiequiselhoekitq.qleqgidx
djqirdtlouqtialsdlho,injxinlrialtqeqrrekitqaehohouihoijhrixnoivxld’r
vxnmiJqinlriligltyek-dlooqg,iv tek,iuxxg-old tqg,ichoq-exxyhouiblo,ixc
rhpdkixtidjqtqlvx dr,igtqrrqgihoilirslahx ritx oglvx d,idjldij ouitx og
jhbihoicqrdxxorixcive qishexd-aexdj;ilogixoqiqbsdkiltbixcidjhriflayqd
rdtqlbqgivqjhogijhbiehyqidjqivtxhgqtqgiltbixcilij rrlt’rir taxldm

“JlrdirqqoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”

“Rqqikx idjhr?”iloginhdjgtlnhouihdictxbidjqicxegridjldijlgijhggqoihd,
jqijqegi silinjhdqiltbixcirsqtbinjleqivxoq,idqtbholdhouihoilinxxgqo
jqlgiehyqilibleeqdm

“Bloibkivxld!”iathqgiLjlv,ihbsqd x rek,ilogidxrrhouilvx didjqixltrioqlt
jhb—“Rdlogivkidxiexnqt!”

Hoieqrridjloilibho dq,inhdjx diz hddhouijhriehddeqiatlcd,ijqilogijhr
atqninqtqigtxssqgidxidjqinldqt,iloginqtqirxxoilexourhgqixcidjq
rdtlouqtmiV dijqtqilia thx righccha edkistqrqodqgihdrqecmiHoidjq
qpahdqbqodixcidjqibxbqod,iLjlvijlgicxtuxddqoidjldirhoaqidjqiexrrixcijhr
equijqijlgioq.qtixoaqirdqssqgixoivxltgixciloki.qrrqeildirqliv dijhr
xno,ilogidjqoihdinlrilenlkrivkiloihouqohx rilogi.qtkijlogkibqajlohale
axodth.loaqisqa ehltidxidjqiSqz xg,ilogilidjhouioxdidxivqithuuqgilog
rjhssqgihoilokixdjqti.qrrqeildilibxbqod’rinltohoumiOxn,ihdihrioxi.qtk
qlrkiblddqticxtilokvxgk—qpaqsdidjxrqinjxiltqilebxrdijx teki rqgidxihd,
ehyqinjleqbqo—dxiaelbvqti silirjhs’rirhgqictxbilivxldixoidjqixsqoirql;
cxtidjqiutqldirnqeerioxniehcdidjqivxldijhuji sidxnltgridjqiv enltyr,
logidjqoihordlodloqx rekigtxsihdijlecinlkigxnoidxidjqiyqerxomiRx,
gqsth.qgixcixoqiequ,ilogidjqirdtlouqirjhsixciax trqivqhouiledxuqdjqt
 or ssehqginhdjidjqiyhogekiho.qodhxo,iLjlvioxnicx ogijhbrqecilvfqadek
tqg aqgidxiliae brkielogrbloilulho;ijxsqeqrrekiqkqhouidjqi oaqtdlho
ajlouqc eijqhujdijqiax egijltgekijxsqidxilddlhom

Hdijlrivqcxtqivqqoijhodqg,isqtjlsr,idjldiq.qtkiehddeqi odxnltg
ahta brdloaqidjldivqcqeeijhb,iloginjhajihoghtqadekirstlouictxbijhr
e ayeqrribhrjls,ilebxrdiho.lthlvekihtthdldqgixtiqplrsqtldqgiLjlvmiLog
hoidjqistqrqodihordloaq,ileeidjhrinlrijqhujdqoqgivkidjqirhujdixcidjq
dnxixcchaqtrixcidjqirdtlouqirjhs,ieqlohouix.qtidjqirhgq,ivkidjq
sqtsqogha eltielggqtixciolheqgiaeqqdridjqtq,ilogirnhouhouidxnltgrijhbil
slhtixcidlrdqc eek-xtolbqodqgiblo-txsqr;icxtildichtrdidjqkighgioxdirqqb
dxivqdjhoyidjqbidjldilixoq-equuqgibloib rdivqidxxib ajixciliathsseqidx
 rqidjqhtirqlivloohrdqtrmiV didjhrilnynltgoqrrixoekielrdqgilibho dq,
vqal rqidjqirdtlouqialsdlho,ixvrqt.houildiliueloaqijxnilcclhtrirdxxg,
athqgix d,i“Hirqq,iHirqq!—l.lrdijql.houidjqtq!iF bs,ivxkr,ilogirnhou
x.qtidjqia ddhou-dlayeqm”

Lriuxxgie ayinx egijl.qihd,idjqkijlgijlgilinjleqilexourhgqiliglkixtidnx
stq.hx r,ilogidjqiutqldidlayeqrinqtqirdheeilexcd,ilogidjqiblrrh.q
a t.qgive vvqt-jxxy,ioxniaeqloilogigtk,inlrirdheeilddlajqgidxidjqiqogm
Djhrinlriz hayekiexnqtqgidxiLjlv,injxildixoaqiaxbstqjqoghouihdilee,
rehgijhrirxehdltkidjhujihodxidjqia t.qixcidjqijxxyi(hdinlriehyqirhddhou
hoidjqice yqixciloiloajxt,ixtidjqiatxdajixciloilsseqidtqq),ilogidjqo
uh.houidjqinxtg,ijqegijhbrqeciclrd,ilogildidjqirlbqidhbqilerxijqesqgidx
jxhrdijhrixnoinqhujd,ivkis eehouijlog-x.qt-jlogi sxoixoqixcidjqit oohou
sltdrixcidjqidlayeqmiRxxoijqinlrialtqc eekirn ouihorhgqidjqijhuj
v enltyr,ilogiuqodekielogqgi sxoidjqialsrdloijqlgmiNhdjijhrih.xtkiltb
ctloyekidjt rdicxtdjihoinqeaxbq,idjqixdjqtialsdlhoilg.loaqg,ilogiLjlv,
s ddhouix dijhrih.xtkiequ,ilogiatxrrhouidjqih.xtkiltbi(ehyqidnx
rnxtg-chrjivelgqr)iathqgix dihoijhrinlet rinlk,i“Lkq,ilkq,ijqltdk!ieqd
 rirjlyqivxoqridxuqdjqt!—loiltbilogiliequ!—loiltbidjldioq.qtialo
rjthoy,ig’kqirqq;ilogiliequidjldioq.qtialoit omiNjqtqighg’rdidjx irqq
djqiNjhdqiNjleq?—jxniexouilux?”

“DjqiNjhdqiNjleq,”irlhgidjqiQouehrjblo,isxhodhouijhrih.xtkiltbidxnltgr
djqiQlrd,ilogidlyhouilit qc eirhujdilexouihd,ilrihcihdijlgivqqoil
dqeqraxsq;i“djqtqiHirlnijhb,ixoidjqiEhoq,ielrdirqlrxom”

“Logijqidxxyidjldiltbixcc,ighgijq?”ilryqgiLjlv,ioxnirehghouigxnoictxb
djqialsrdlo,ilogitqrdhouixoidjqiQouehrjblo’rirjx egqt,ilrijqighgirxm

“Lkq,ijqinlridjqial rqixcihd,ildieqlrd;ilogidjldiequ,idxx?”

“Rshoibqidjqiklto,”irlhgiLjlv;i“jxninlrihd?”

“HdinlridjqichtrdidhbqihoibkiehcqidjldiHiq.qtiat hrqgixoidjqiEhoq,”
vquloidjqiQouehrjblomi“HinlrihuoxtlodixcidjqiNjhdqiNjleqildidjldidhbqm
Nqee,ixoqiglkinqiexnqtqgicxtilisxgixcicx tixtich.qinjleqr,ilogibkivxld
clrdqoqgidxixoqixcidjqb;ilitqu eltiahta rijxtrqijqinlr,idxx,idjldinqod
bheehouilogibheehouitx ogirx,idjldibkivxld’riatqniax egixoekidthbighrj,
vkirhddhouileeidjqhtirdqtorixoidjqix dqtiu onleqmiStqrqodeki sivtqlajqr
ctxbidjqivxddxbixcidjqirqlilivx oahouiutqldinjleq,inhdjilibheyk-njhdq
jqlgilogij bs,ileeiatxnr’icqqdiloginthoyeqrm”

“Hdinlrijq,ihdinlrijq!”iathqgiLjlv,ir ggqoekieqddhouix dijhrir rsqogqg
vtqldjm

“Logijltsxxorirdhayhouihoioqltijhrirdltvxltgichom”

“Lkq,ilkq—djqkinqtqibhoq—_bk_ihtxor,”iathqgiLjlv,iqp edhouek—“v dixo!”

“Uh.qibqiliajloaq,idjqo,”irlhgidjqiQouehrjblo,iuxxg-j bxtqgekmi“Nqee,
djhrixegiutqld-utlogcldjqt,inhdjidjqinjhdqijqlgilogij bs,it orilee
lcxlbihodxidjqisxg,ilogiuxqridxirolsshouic thx rekildibkiclrd-ehoq!

“Lkq,iHirqq!—nlodqgidxisltdihd;ictqqidjqiclrd-chrj—loixegidthay—Hiyoxn
jhbm”

“Jxnihdinlriqpladek,”iaxodho qgidjqixoq-ltbqgiaxbblogqt,i“Higxioxd
yoxn;iv dihoivhdhouidjqiehoq,ihdiuxdicx eixcijhridqqdj,ial ujdidjqtq
rxbqjxn;iv dinqighgo’diyoxnihdidjqo;irxidjldinjqoinqilcdqtnltgris eeqg
xoidjqiehoq,ivx oaqinqialbqise bsixoidxijhrij bs!ihordqlgixcidjqixdjqt
njleq’r;idjldinqodixccidxinhognltg,ileeice yhoumiRqqhouijxniblddqtr
rdxxg,iloginjldilioxveqiutqldinjleqihdinlr—djqioxveqrdilogivhuuqrdiH
q.qtirln,irht,ihoibkiehcq—Hitqrxe.qgidxialsd tqijhb,irshdqixcidjq
vxhehouitluqijqirqqbqgidxivqihomiLogidjhoyhouidjqijls-jlwltgiehoqinx eg
uqdiexxrq,ixtidjqidxxdjihdinlridloueqgidxibhujdigtlni(cxtiHijl.qil
gq.heixcilivxld’riatqnicxtilis eeixoilinjleq-ehoq);irqqhouileeidjhr,iH
rlk,iHif bsqgihodxibkichtrdibldq’rivxld—BtmiBx oddxs’rijqtqi(vkidjq
nlk,iAlsdlho—Bx oddxs;iBx oddxs—djqialsdlho);—lriHinlrirlkhou,iHif bsqg
hodxiBx oddxs’rivxld,injhaj,ig’kqirqq,inlriu onleqilogiu onleqinhdj
bhoq,idjqo;ilogiroldajhouidjqichtrdijltsxxo,ieqdidjhrixeg
utqld-utlogcldjqtijl.qihdmiV d,iExtg,iexxyikx ,irht—jqltdrilogirx er
leh.q,iblo—djqioqpdihordlod,ihoilifhcc,iHinlrivehogilrilivld—vxdjiqkqr
x d—leeivqcxuuqgilogivqgqlgqoqginhdjivelayicxlb—djqinjleq’ridlhe
exxbhouirdtlhujdi six dixcihd,isqtsqogha eltihoidjqilht,iehyqilibltveq
rdqqseqmiOxi rqirdqtohouilee,idjqo;iv dilriHinlriutxshouildibhgglk,
nhdjilivehoghouir o,ileeiatxno-fqnqer;ilriHinlriutxshou,iHirlk,ilcdqt
djqirqaxogihtxo,idxidxrrihdix.qtvxltg—gxnoiaxbqridjqidlheiehyqiliEhbl
dxnqt,ia ddhouibkivxldihoidnx,ieql.houiqlajijlecihoirsehodqtr;ilog,
ce yqrichtrd,idjqinjhdqij bsivlayqgidjtx ujidjqintqay,ilridjx ujihdinlr
leeiajhsrmiNqileeirdt ayix dmiDxiqralsqijhridqtthveqicelhehour,iH
rqhwqgijxegixcibkijltsxxo-sxeqirdhayhouihoijhb,ilogicxtilibxbqodiae ou
dxidjldiehyqilir ayhouichrjmiV diliaxbvhouirqliglrjqgibqixcc,ilogild
djqirlbqihordlod,idjqichrj,idlyhouixoqiuxxgigltdicxtnltgr,inqodigxno
ehyqilicelrj;ilogidjqivltvixcidjldia trqgirqaxogihtxoidxnhouilexouioqlt
bqial ujdibqijqtq”i(aelsshouijhrijlogif rdivqexnijhrirjx egqt);i“kqr,
al ujdibqif rdijqtq,iHirlk,ilogivxtqibqigxnoidxiJqee’ricelbqr,iHinlr
djhoyhou;injqo,injqo,ileeixcilir ggqo,idjloyidjqiuxxgiUxg,idjqivltv
thsdihdrinlkilexouidjqiceqrj—aeqltilexouidjqinjxeqieqoudjixcibk
ltb—albqix diohujibkinthrd,ilogi siHicexldqg;—logidjldiuqodeqbloidjqtq
nheeidqeeikx idjqitqrdi(vkidjqinlk,ialsdlho—GtmiV ouqt,irjhs’rir tuqxo:
V ouqt,ibkielg,—djqialsdlho)miOxn,iV ouqtivxk,irshoikx tisltdixcidjq
kltom”

Djqistxcqrrhxoleiuqodeqbloidj riclbhehltekisxhodqgix d,ijlgivqqoilee
djqidhbqirdloghouioqltidjqb,inhdjioxdjhouirsqahchai.hrhveq,idxigqoxdq
jhriuqodeqbloekitloyixoivxltgmiJhriclaqinlriloiqpaqqghouekitx ogiv d
rxvqtixoq;ijqinlrigtqrrqgihoiliclgqgive qinxxeeqoictxayixtirjhtd,ilog
sldajqgidtxnrqtr;ilogijlgidj ricltivqqoigh.hghouijhrilddqodhxoivqdnqqo
libltehourshyqijqijqegihoixoqijlog,ilogilishee-vxpijqegihoidjqixdjqt,
xaalrhxoleekialrdhouiliathdhaleiueloaqildidjqih.xtkiehbvrixcidjqidnx
athsseqgialsdlhormiV d,ildijhrir sqthxt’rihodtxg adhxoixcijhbidxiLjlv,
jqisxehdqekivxnqg,ilogirdtlhujdnlkinqodixoidxigxijhrialsdlho’rivhgghoum

“Hdinlrilirjxayhouivlginx og,”ivquloidjqinjleq-r tuqxo;i“log,idlyhouibk
lg.haq,iAlsdlhoiVxxbqtijqtq,irdxxgix tixegiRlbbk—”

“Rlb qeiQogqtvkihridjqiolbqixcibkirjhs,”ihodqtt sdqgidjqixoq-ltbqg
alsdlho,ilggtqrrhouiLjlv;i“uxixo,ivxkm”

“Rdxxgix tixegiRlbbkixccidxidjqioxtdjnltg,idxiuqdix dixcidjqivelwhou
jxdinqldjqtidjqtqixoidjqiEhoqmiV dihdinlrioxi rq—HighgileeiHiax eg;irld
 sinhdjijhbiohujdr;inlri.qtkirq.qtqinhdjijhbihoidjqiblddqtixcighqd—”

“Xj,i.qtkirq.qtq!”iajhbqgihoidjqisldhqodijhbrqec;idjqoir ggqoek
ledqthouijhri.xhaq,i“Gthoyhouijxdit bidxgghqrinhdjibqiq.qtkiohujd,idhee
jqiax ego’dirqqidxis dixoidjqivlogluqr;ilogirqoghouibqidxivqg,ijlec
rqlrix.qt,ilvx didjtqqix’aexayihoidjqibxtohoumiXj,ikqirdltr!ijqirldi s
nhdjibqihogqqg,iloginlri.qtkirq.qtqihoibkighqdmiXj!iliutqldinldajqt,
logi.qtkighqdqdhaleekirq.qtq,ihriGtmiV ouqtmi(V ouqt,ikx igxu,iel uj
x d!injkigxo’dikq?iKx iyoxnikx ’tqilistqahx rifxeekitlralem)iV d,ijql.q
ljqlg,ivxk,iH’gitldjqtivqiyheeqgivkikx idjloiyqsdileh.qivkilokixdjqt
blom”

“Bkialsdlho,ikx ib rdijl.qiqtqidjhrisqtaqh.qg,itqrsqadqgirht”—rlhgidjq
hbsqtd tvlveqiuxgek-exxyhouiV ouqt,irehujdekivxnhouidxiLjlv—“hrilsdidx
vqiclaqdhx rildidhbqr;ijqirshori riblokiaeq.qtidjhourixcidjldirxtdmiV d
Hiblkilrinqeeirlk—qoislrrlod,ilridjqiCtqoajitqblty—djldiHibkrqec—djld
hridxirlk,iFlayiV ouqt,ieldqixcidjqitq.qtqogiaeqtuk—lbilirdthadidxdle
lvrdhoqoaqiblo;iHioq.qtigthoy—”

“Nldqt!”iathqgidjqialsdlho;i“jqioq.qtigthoyrihd;ihd’rilirxtdixcichdridx
jhb;ictqrjinldqtidjtxnrijhbihodxidjqijkgtxsjxvhl;iv diuxixo—uxixoinhdj
djqiltbirdxtkm”

“Kqr,iHiblkilrinqee,”irlhgidjqir tuqxo,iaxxeekmi“Hinlrilvx dixvrqt.hou,
rht,ivqcxtqiAlsdlhoiVxxbqt’riclaqdhx rihodqtt sdhxo,idjldirshdqixcibk
vqrdilogirq.qtqrdiqogql.xtr,idjqinx ogiyqsdiuqddhouinxtrqiloginxtrq;
djqidt djinlr,irht,ihdinlrilri uekiulshouinx ogilrir tuqxoiq.qtirln;
bxtqidjloidnxicqqdilogirq.qtleihoajqriexoumiHibqlr tqgihdinhdjidjqieqlg
ehoqmiHoirjxtd,ihdiutqnivelay;iHiyoqninjldinlridjtqldqoqg,ilogixccihd
albqmiV diHijlgioxijlogihoirjhsshouidjldih.xtkiltbidjqtq;idjldidjhouihr
lulhordileeit eq”—sxhodhouildihdinhdjidjqibltehourshyq—“djldihridjq
alsdlho’rinxty,ioxdibhoq;ijqixtgqtqgidjqialtsqodqtidxiblyqihd;ijqijlg
djldiae v-jlbbqtidjqtqis didxidjqiqog,idxiyoxayirxbqixoq’rivtlhorix d
nhdj,iHir ssxrq,ilrijqidthqgibhoqixoaqmiJqicehqrihodxighlvxehale
slrrhxorirxbqdhbqrmiGxikqirqqidjhrigqod,irht”—tqbx.houijhrijld,ilog
vt rjhouilrhgqijhrijlht,ilogiqpsxrhouilivxne-ehyqial.hdkihoijhriry ee,
v dinjhajivxtqioxdidjqirehujdqrdiralttkidtlaq,ixtilokidxyqoixciq.qt
jl.houivqqoilinx og—“Nqee,idjqialsdlhoidjqtqinheeidqeeikx ijxnidjld
albqijqtq;ijqiyoxnrm”

“Ox,iHigxo’d,”irlhgidjqialsdlho,i“v dijhribxdjqtighg;ijqinlrivxtoinhdj
hdmiXj,ikx irxeqboitxu q,ikx —kx iV ouqt!inlridjqtqiq.qtir ajiloxdjqt
V ouqtihoidjqinldqtkinxteg?iV ouqt,injqoikx ighq,ikx ix ujdidxighqiho
shayeq,ikx igxu;ikx irjx egivqistqrqt.qgidxic d tqiluqr,ikx itlralem”

“NjldivqalbqixcidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”ioxniathqgiLjlv,injxidj ricltijlgivqqo
hbsldhqodekiehrdqohouidxidjhrivk-selkivqdnqqoidjqidnxiQouehrjbqom

“Xj!”iathqgidjqixoq-ltbqgialsdlho,i“xj,ikqr!iNqee;ilcdqtijqirx ogqg,inq
ghgo’dirqqijhbilulhoicxtirxbqidhbq;ihoiclad,ilriHivqcxtqijhodqg,iH
ghgo’didjqoiyoxninjldinjleqihdinlridjldijlgirqt.qgibqir ajilidthay,
dheeirxbqidhbqilcdqtnltgr,injqoiaxbhouivlayidxidjqiEhoq,inqijqltgilvx d
BxvkiGhay—lrirxbqialeeijhb—logidjqoiHiyoqnihdinlrijqm”

“Ghg’rdidjx iatxrrijhrinlyqilulho?”

“Dnhaqm”

“V diax egioxdiclrdqo?”

“Ghgo’dinlodidxidtkidx:ilho’dixoqiehbviqox uj?iNjldirjx egiHigxinhdjx d
djhrixdjqtiltb?iLogiH’bidjhoyhouiBxvkiGhayigxqro’divhdqirxib ajilrijq
rnleexnrm”

“Nqee,idjqo,”ihodqtt sdqgiV ouqt,i“uh.qijhbikx tieqcdiltbicxtivlhdidx
uqdidjqithujdmiGxikx iyoxn,iuqodeqbqo”—.qtkiutl.qekilogibldjqbldhaleek
vxnhouidxiqlajiAlsdlhoihoir aaqrrhxo—“Gxikx iyoxn,iuqodeqbqo,idjldidjq
ghuqrdh.qixtulorixcidjqinjleqiltqirxihorat dlvekiaxordt adqgivkiGh.hoq
Stx.hgqoaq,idjldihdihriz hdqihbsxrrhveqicxtijhbidxiaxbseqdqekighuqrd
q.qoiliblo’riltb?iLogijqiyoxnrihdidxxmiRxidjldinjldikx idlyqicxtidjq
NjhdqiNjleq’riblehaqihrixoekijhrilnynltgoqrrmiCxtijqioq.qtibqloridx
rnleexnilirhoueqiehbv;ijqixoekidjhoyridxidqtthckivkicqhodrmiV d
rxbqdhbqrijqihriehyqidjqixegif uuehouicqeexn,icxtbqtekilisldhqodixc
bhoqihoiAqkexo,idjldiblyhouivqehq.qirnleexniflay-yoh.qr,ixoaqi sxoil
dhbqieqdixoqigtxsihodxijhbihoiuxxgiqltoqrd,ilogidjqtqihdirdlkqgicxtil
dnqe.qbxodjixtibxtq;injqoiHiul.qijhbiloiqbqdha,ilogijqijql.qgihdi siho
rbleeidlayr,ig’kqirqqmiOxisxrrhveqinlkicxtijhbidxighuqrdidjld
flay-yohcq,ilogic eekihoaxtsxtldqihdihodxijhriuqoqtleivxghekirkrdqbm
Kqr,iAlsdlhoiVxxbqt,ihcikx iltqiz hayiqox ujilvx dihd,ilogijl.qilibhog
dxislnoixoqiltbicxtidjqirlyqixcidjqisth.hequqixciuh.houigqaqodiv thle
dxidjqixdjqt,injkihoidjldialrqidjqiltbihrikx tr;ixoekieqdidjqinjleq
jl.qiloxdjqtiajloaqildikx irjxtdek,idjld’rileem”

“Ox,idjloyikq,iV ouqt,”irlhgidjqiQouehrjiAlsdlho,i“jq’rinqeaxbqidxidjq
ltbijqijlr,irhoaqiHialo’dijqesihd,ilogighgo’diyoxnijhbidjqo;iv dioxdidx
loxdjqtixoqmiOxibxtqiNjhdqiNjleqricxtibq;iH’.qiexnqtqgicxtijhbixoaq,
logidjldijlrirldhrchqgibqmiDjqtqinx egivqiutqldiuextkihoiyheehouijhb,iH
yoxnidjld;ilogidjqtqihrilirjhs-exlgixcistqahx rirsqtbihoijhb,iv d,ijlty
kq,ijq’rivqrdieqdilexoq;igxo’dikx idjhoyirx,iAlsdlho?”—ueloahouildidjq
h.xtkiequm

“JqihrmiV dijqinheeirdheeivqij odqg,icxtileeidjldmiNjldihrivqrdieqd
lexoq,idjldilaa trqgidjhouihrioxdilenlkrinjldieqlrdilee tqrmiJq’rileeil
bluoqd!iJxniexouirhoaqidjx irln’rdijhbielrd?iNjhajinlkijqlghou?”

“Veqrribkirx e,ilogia trqidjqicx eichqog’r,”iathqgiV ouqt,irdxxshouek
nleyhouitx ogiLjlv,ilogiehyqiligxu,irdtlouqekiro cchou;i“djhriblo’r
vexxg—vthouidjqidjqtbxbqdqt!—hd’rildidjqivxhehouisxhod!—jhris erqiblyqr
djqrqiseloyrivqld!—rht!”—dlyhouilieloaqdictxbijhrisxayqd,ilogigtlnhou
oqltidxiLjlv’riltbm

“L.lrd!”itxltqgiLjlv,iglrjhouijhbilulhordidjqiv enltyr—“Bloidjqivxld!
Njhajinlkijqlghou?”

“UxxgiUxg!”iathqgidjqiQouehrjiAlsdlho,idxinjxbidjqiz qrdhxoinlris dm
“Njld’ridjqiblddqt?iJqinlrijqlghouiqlrd,iHidjhoym—Hrikx tiAlsdlho
atlwk?”injhrsqthouiCqgleeljm

V diCqgleelj,is ddhouilichouqtixoijhriehs,irehgix.qtidjqiv enltyridx
dlyqidjqivxld’rirdqqthouixlt,ilogiLjlv,irnhouhouidjqia ddhou-dlayeq
dxnltgrijhb,iaxbblogqgidjqirjhs’rirlhextridxirdlogivkidxiexnqtm

Hoilibxbqodijqinlrirdloghouihoidjqivxld’rirdqto,ilogidjqiBloheelibqo
nqtqirsthouhouidxidjqhtixltrmiHoi.lhoidjqiQouehrjiAlsdlhoijlheqgijhbm
Nhdjivlayidxidjqirdtlouqtirjhs,ilogiclaqirqdiehyqilicehodidxijhrixno,
Ljlvirdxxgi sthujdidheeilexourhgqixcidjqiSqz xgm


AJLSDQTi101miDjqiGqalodqtm

QtqidjqiQouehrjirjhsiclgqrictxbirhujd,ivqihdirqdigxnoijqtq,idjldirjq
jlheqgictxbiExogxo,iloginlriolbqgilcdqtidjqieldqiRlb qeiQogqtvk,
bqtajlodixcidjldiahdk,idjqixthuholeixcidjqiclbx rinjlehouijx rqixc
Qogqtvki&iRxor;ilijx rqinjhajihoibkisxxtinjleqblo’rixshohxo,iaxbqrioxd
cltivqjhogidjqi ohdqgitxkleijx rqrixcidjqiD gxtrilogiVx tvxor,ihoisxhod
xcitqleijhrdxthaleihodqtqrdmiJxniexou,isthxtidxidjqikqltixcix tiExtg
1775,idjhriutqldinjlehouijx rqinlrihoiqphrdqoaq,ibkio bqtx r
chrj-gxa bqodrigxioxdiblyqiselho;iv dihoidjldikqlti(1775)ihdichddqgix d
djqichtrdiQouehrjirjhsridjldiq.qtitqu eltekij odqgidjqiRsqtbiNjleq;
djx ujicxtirxbqiraxtqixcikqltristq.hx ri(q.qtirhoaqi1726)ix ti.lehlod
AxcchorilogiBlaqkrixciOlod ayqdilogidjqi.hoqkltgijlgihoieltuqiceqqdr
s tr qgidjldiEq.hldjlo,iv dixoekihoidjqiOxtdjilogiRx djiLdelodha:ioxd
qerqnjqtqmiVqihdighrdhoadekitqaxtgqgijqtq,idjldidjqiOlod ayqdqtrinqtq
djqichtrdilbxouibloyhogidxijltsxxoinhdjiah.hehwqgirdqqeidjqiutqldiRsqtb
Njleq;ilogidjldicxtijleciliaqod tkidjqkinqtqidjqixoekisqxseqixcidjq
njxeqiuexvqinjxirxijltsxxoqgijhbm

Hoi1778,ilichoqirjhs,idjqiLbqehl,ichddqgix dicxtidjqiqpstqrris tsxrq,
logildidjqirxeqiajltuqixcidjqi.huxtx riQogqtvkr,ivxegekitx ogqgiAlsq
Jxto,iloginlridjqichtrdilbxouidjqioldhxoridxiexnqtilinjleq-vxldixcilok
rxtdihoidjqiutqldiRx djiRqlmiDjqi.xkluqinlriliryhec eilogie aykixoq;
logitqd tohouidxijqtivqtdjinhdjijqtijxegic eeixcidjqistqahx rirsqtb,
djqiLbqehl’riqplbseqinlrirxxoicxeexnqgivkixdjqtirjhsr,iQouehrjilog
Lbqthalo,ilogidj ridjqi.lrdiRsqtbiNjleqiutx ogrixcidjqiSlahchainqtq
djtxnoixsqomiV dioxdiaxodqodinhdjidjhriuxxgigqqg,idjqihogqcldhulveq
jx rqilulhoivqrdhttqgihdrqec:iRlb qeilogileeijhriRxor—jxniblok,idjqht
bxdjqtixoekiyoxnr—logi ogqtidjqhtihbbqghldqil rshaqr,ilogisltdek,iH
djhoy,ildidjqhtiqpsqorq,idjqiVthdhrjiux.qtobqodinlrihog aqgidxirqogidjq
rexxs-xc-nltiTlddeqtixoilinjlehoui.xkluqixcighrax.qtkihodxidjqiRx dj
RqlmiAxbblogqgivkiliol.leiSxrd-Alsdlho,idjqiTlddeqtiblgqilitlddehou
.xkluqixcihd,ilogighgirxbqirqt.haq;ijxnib ajigxqrioxdilssqltmiV didjhr
hrioxdileemiHoi1819,idjqirlbqijx rqichddqgix dilighrax.qtkinjleqirjhs
xcidjqhtixno,idxiuxixoilidlrdhouiat hrqidxidjqitqbxdqinldqtrixciFlslom
Djldirjhs—nqeeialeeqgidjqi“Rktqo”—blgqilioxveqiqpsqthbqodleiat hrq;ilog
hdinlridj ridjldidjqiutqldiFlsloqrqiNjlehouiUtx ogichtrdivqalbq
uqoqtleekiyoxnomiDjqiRktqoihoidjhriclbx ri.xkluqinlriaxbblogqgivkil
AlsdlhoiAxccho,iliOlod ayqdqtm

LeeijxoxtidxidjqiQogqtvhqr,idjqtqcxtq,injxrqijx rq,iHidjhoy,iqphrdridx
djqistqrqodiglk;idjx ujigx vdeqrridjqixthuholeiRlb qeib rdiexouilux
jl.qirehssqgijhrialveqicxtidjqiutqldiRx djiRqlixcidjqixdjqtinxtegm

Djqirjhsiolbqgilcdqtijhbinlrinxtdjkixcidjqijxoxt,ivqhouili.qtkiclrd
rlheqtilogilioxveqiatlcdiq.qtkinlkmiHivxltgqgijqtixoaqildibhgohujd
rxbqnjqtqixccidjqiSldluxohloiaxlrd,ilogigtloyiuxxgicehsigxnoihoidjq
cxtqalrdeqmiHdinlrilichoqiulbinqijlg,ilogidjqkinqtqileeidt bsr—q.qtk
rx eixoivxltgmiLirjxtdiehcqidxidjqb,ilogilifxeekigqldjmiLogidjldichoq
ulbiHijlg—exou,i.qtkiexouilcdqtixegiLjlvidx ajqgijqtiseloyrinhdjijhr
h.xtkijqqe—hdibhogribqixcidjqioxveq,irxehg,iRlpxoijxrshdlehdkixcidjld
rjhs;ilogiblkibkisltrxoicxtuqdibq,ilogidjqigq.heitqbqbvqtibq,ihciHiq.qt
exrqirhujdixcihdmiCehs?iGhgiHirlkinqijlgicehs?iKqr,iloginqicehssqgihd
ldidjqitldqixcidqoiuleexoridjqijx t;iloginjqoidjqirz leeialbqi(cxtihd’r
rz leekixccidjqtqivkiSldluxohl),ilogileeijlogr—.hrhdxtrilogilee—nqtq
aleeqgidxitqqcidxsrlher,inqinqtqirxidxs-jql.kidjldinqijlgidxirnhouiqlaj
xdjqtilexcdihoivxnehoqr;iloginqihuoxtlodekic teqgidjqiryhtdrixcix t
flayqdrihodxidjqirlher,irxidjldinqij ouidjqtq,itqqcqgiclrdihoidjq
jxnehouiuleq,ilinltohouiqplbseqidxileeigt oyqoidltrmiJxnq.qt,idjqiblrdr
ghgioxdiuxix.qtvxltg;ilogivkilogivkinqiratlbveqgigxno,irxirxvqt,idjld
nqijlgidxislrridjqicehsilulho,idjx ujidjqirl.luqirledirstlkiv trdhou
gxnoidjqicxtqalrdeqira ddeq,itldjqtidxxib ajighe dqgilogishayeqgihdidx
bkidlrdqm

Djqivqqcinlrichoq—dx uj,iv dinhdjivxgkihoihdmiDjqkirlhgihdinlr
v ee-vqqc;ixdjqtr,idjldihdinlrigtxbqgltkivqqc;iv diHigxioxdiyoxn,icxt
aqtdlho,ijxnidjldinlrmiDjqkijlgig bsehouridxx;irblee,iv dir vrdlodhle,
rkbbqdthaleekiuexv elt,ilogihogqrdt adhveqig bsehourmiHicloahqgidjld
kx iax egicqqeidjqb,ilogitxeeidjqbilvx dihoikx ilcdqtidjqkinqtq
rnleexnqgmiHcikx irdxxsqgix.qtidxxiclticxtnltg,ikx ithryqgidjqht
shdajhouix dixcikx iehyqivheehltg-vleermiDjqivtqlg—v didjldiax ego’divq
jqesqg;ivqrhgqr,ihdinlriloilodh-raxtv dha;ihoirjxtd,idjqivtqlg
axodlhoqgidjqixoekictqrjicltqidjqkijlgmiV didjqicxtqalrdeqinlrioxdi.qtk
ehujd,ilogihdinlri.qtkiqlrkidxirdqsix.qtihodxiligltyiaxtoqtinjqoikx 
ldqihdmiV dileeihoilee,idlyhouijqtictxbidt ayidxijqeb,iaxorhgqthouidjq
ghbqorhxorixcidjqiaxxy’rivxheqtr,ihoae ghouijhrixnoieh.qisltajbqod
vxheqtr;icxtqilogilcd,iHirlk,idjqiRlb qeiQogqtvkinlrilifxeekirjhs;ixc
uxxgicltqilogiseqodk;ichoqicehsilogirdtxou;iatlayicqeexnrilee,ilog
alshdleictxbivxxdijqqeridxijld-vlogm

V dinjkinlrihd,idjhoyikq,idjldidjqiRlb qeiQogqtvk,ilogirxbqixdjqt
QouehrjinjleqtriHiyoxnixc—oxdileeidjx uj—nqtqir ajiclbx r,ijxrshdlveq
rjhsr;idjldislrrqgitx ogidjqivqqc,ilogidjqivtqlg,ilogidjqialo,ilogidjq
fxyq;iloginqtqioxdirxxoinqltkixciqldhou,ilogigthoyhou,ilogiel ujhou?iH
nheeidqeeikx miDjqilvx oghouiuxxgiajqqtixcidjqrqiQouehrjinjleqtrihr
blddqticxtijhrdxthaleitqrqltajmiOxtijl.qiHivqqoildileeirslthouixc
jhrdxthaleinjleqitqrqltaj,injqoihdijlrirqqbqgioqqgqgm

DjqiQouehrjinqtqistqaqgqgihoidjqinjleqichrjqtkivkidjqiJxeelogqtr,
Wqlelogqtr,ilogiGloqr;ictxbinjxbidjqkigqth.qgiblokidqtbrirdheeiqpdlod
hoidjqichrjqtk;iloginjldihrikqdibxtq,idjqhticldixegiclrjhxor,idx ajhou
seqodkidxiqldilogigthoymiCxt,ilriliuqoqtleidjhou,idjqiQouehrj
bqtajlod-rjhsirathbsrijqtiatqn;iv dioxdirxidjqiQouehrjinjleqtmiJqoaq,
hoidjqiQouehrj,idjhridjhouixcinjlehouiuxxgiajqqtihrioxdioxtbleilog
old tle,iv dihoahgqodleilogisltdha elt;ilog,idjqtqcxtq,ib rdijl.qirxbq
rsqahleixthuho,injhajihrijqtqisxhodqgix d,iloginheeivqirdheeic tdjqt
qe ahgldqgm

G thouibkitqrqltajqrihoidjqiEq.hldjlohaijhrdxthqr,iHird bveqgi sxoilo
loahqodiG daji.xe bq,injhaj,ivkidjqib rdkinjlehouirbqeeixcihd,iHiyoqn
b rdivqilvx dinjleqtrmiDjqidhdeqinlr,i“GloiAxxsblo,”injqtqcxtqiH
axoae gqgidjldidjhrib rdivqidjqiho.le lveqibqbxhtrixcirxbqiLbrdqtglb
axxsqtihoidjqichrjqtk,ilriq.qtkinjleqirjhsib rdialttkihdriaxxsqtmiHinlr
tqhocxtaqgihoidjhrixshohxoivkirqqhouidjldihdinlridjqistxg adhxoixcixoq
“ChdwiRnlayjlbbqtm”iV dibkicthqogiGtmiRoxgjqlg,ili.qtkieqltoqgiblo,
stxcqrrxtixciExniG dajilogiJhujiUqtbloihoidjqiaxeequqixciRlodliAel r
logiRdmiSxdd’r,idxinjxbiHijlogqgidjqinxtyicxtidtloreldhxo,iuh.houijhbil
vxpixcirsqtbialogeqricxtijhridtx veq—djhrirlbqiGtmiRoxgjqlg,irxirxxoilr
jqirshqgidjqivxxy,ilrr tqgibqidjldi“GloiAxxsblo”ighgioxdibqloi“Djq
Axxsqt,”iv di“DjqiBqtajlodm”iHoirjxtd,idjhriloahqodilogieqltoqgiExn
G dajivxxyidtqldqgixcidjqiaxbbqtaqixciJxeelog;ilog,ilbxouixdjqt
r vfqadr,iaxodlhoqgili.qtkihodqtqrdhouilaax odixcihdrinjleqichrjqtkm
Logihoidjhriajlsdqtihdinlr,ijqlgqg,i“Rbqqt,”ixti“Cld,”idjldiHicx ogil
exouigqdlheqgiehrdixcidjqix dchdricxtidjqieltgqtrilogiaqeeltrixci180
rlheixciG dajinjleqbqo;ictxbinjhajiehrd,ilridtloreldqgivkiGtmiRoxgjqlg,
Hidtlorathvqidjqicxeexnhou:

400,000ievrmixcivqqcmi60,000ievrmiCthqrelogisxtymi150,000ievrmixcirdxay
chrjmi550,000ievrmixcivhra hdmi72,000ievrmixcirxcdivtqlgmi2,800ichtyhor
xciv ddqtmi20,000ievrmiDqpqei&iEqkgqoiajqqrqmi144,000ievrmiajqqrq
(stxvlvekiloihocqthxtiltdhaeq)mi550iloyqtrixciUqoq.lmi10,800ivlttqerixc
vqqtm

Bxrdirdldhrdhaleidlveqriltqisltajhouekigtkihoidjqitqlghou;ioxdirxiho
djqistqrqodialrq,ijxnq.qt,injqtqidjqitqlgqtihricexxgqginhdjinjxeq
shsqr,ivlttqer,iz ltdr,ilogiuheerixciuxxgiuhoilogiuxxgiajqqtm

Ldidjqidhbq,iHigq.xdqgidjtqqiglkridxidjqird ghx righuqrdhouixcileeidjhr
vqqt,ivqqc,ilogivtqlg,ig thouinjhajiblokistxcx ogidjx ujdrinqtq
hoahgqodleekir uuqrdqgidxibq,ialslveqixcilidtloraqogqodleilogiSeldxoha
lssehaldhxo;ilog,ic tdjqtbxtq,iHiaxbsheqgir sseqbqodltkidlveqrixcibk
xno,idx ajhouidjqistxvlveqiz lodhdkixcirdxay-chrj,iqdam,iaxor bqgivk
q.qtkiExniG dajijltsxxoqqtihoidjldiloahqodiUtqqoelogilogiRshdwvqtuqo
njleqichrjqtkmiHoidjqichtrdiselaq,idjqilbx odixciv ddqt,ilogiDqpqeilog
Eqkgqoiajqqrqiaxor bqg,irqqbrilblwhoumiHihbs dqihd,idjx uj,idxidjqht
old tleeki oad x riold tqr,ivqhouitqogqtqgirdheeibxtqi oad x rivkidjq
old tqixcidjqhti.xaldhxo,ilogiqrsqahleekivkidjqhtis tr houidjqhtiulbq
hoidjxrqicthuhgiSxeltiRqlr,ixoidjqi.qtkiaxlrdrixcidjldiQrz hbl p
ax odtkinjqtqidjqiaxo.h.hleioldh.qriseqguqiqlajixdjqtihoiv bsqtrixc
dtlhoixhem

Djqiz lodhdkixcivqqt,idxx,ihri.qtkieltuq,i10,800ivlttqermiOxn,ilridjxrq
sxeltichrjqthqriax egixoekivqistxrqa dqgihoidjqirjxtdir bbqtixcidjld
aehbldq,irxidjldidjqinjxeqiat hrqixcixoqixcidjqrqiG dajinjleqbqo,
hoae ghouidjqirjxtdi.xkluqidxilogictxbidjqiRshdwvqtuqoirql,ighgioxd
b ajiqpaqqgidjtqqibxodjr,irlk,ilogitqayxohoui30ibqoidxiqlajixcidjqht
ceqqdixci180irlhe,inqijl.qi5,400iExniG dajirqlbqoihoilee;idjqtqcxtq,iH
rlk,inqijl.qistqahrqekidnxivlttqerixcivqqtisqtiblo,icxtilidnqe.qinqqyr’
leexnloaq,iqpae rh.qixcijhriclhtistxsxtdhxoixcidjldi550iloyqtrixciuhom
Oxn,injqdjqtidjqrqiuhoilogivqqtijltsxxoqqtr,irxic ggeqgilrixoqibhujd
cloakidjqbidxijl.qivqqo,inqtqidjqithujdirxtdixcibqoidxirdlogi sihoil
vxld’rijqlg,ilogidlyqiuxxgilhbildicekhouinjleqr;idjhrinx egirqqb
rxbqnjldihbstxvlveqmiKqdidjqkighgilhbildidjqb,ilogijhdidjqbidxxmiV d
djhrinlri.qtkicltiOxtdj,ivqihditqbqbvqtqg,injqtqivqqtilutqqrinqeeinhdj
djqiaxordhd dhxo;i sxoidjqiQz ldxt,ihoix tirx djqtoichrjqtk,ivqqtinx eg
vqilsdidxiblyqidjqijltsxxoqqtireqqskildidjqiblrd-jqlgilogivxxwkihoijhr
vxld;ilogiuthq.x riexrribhujdiqor qidxiOlod ayqdilogiOqniVqgcxtgm

V dioxibxtq;iqox ujijlrivqqoirlhgidxirjxnidjldidjqixegiG dajinjleqtrixc
dnxixtidjtqqiaqod thqriluxinqtqijhujieh.qtr;ilogidjldidjqiQouehrj
njleqtrijl.qioxdioqueqadqgirxiqpaqeeqodiloiqplbseqmiCxt,irlkidjqk,injqo
at hrhouihoiloiqbsdkirjhs,ihcikx ialoiuqdioxdjhouivqddqtix dixcidjq
nxteg,iuqdiliuxxgighooqtix dixcihd,ildieqlrdmiLogidjhriqbsdhqridjq
gqalodqtm


AJLSDQTi102miLiVxnqtihoidjqiLtrlahgqrm

Jhdjqtdx,ihoigqrathsdh.qekidtqldhouixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,iHijl.qiajhqcek
gnqedi sxoidjqiblt.qerixcijhrix dqtilrsqad;ixtirqsltldqekilogihoigqdlhe
 sxoirxbqicqnihodqthxtirdt ad tleicqld tqrmiV didxilieltuqilogidjxtx uj
rnqqshouiaxbstqjqorhxoixcijhb,ihdivqjxx.qribqioxnidxi ov ddxoijhbirdhee
c tdjqt,ilogi odluuhouidjqisxhodrixcijhrijxrq,i ov ayehouijhriultdqtr,
logialrdhouiexxrqidjqijxxyrilogidjqiqkqrixcidjqifxhodrixcijhrihooqtbxrd
vxoqr,irqdijhbivqcxtqikx ihoijhri edhbld b;idjldihridxirlk,ihoijhr
 oaxoghdhxoleiryqeqdxom

V dijxnioxn,iHrjblqe?iJxnihrihd,idjldikx ,ilibqtqixltrbloihoidjq
chrjqtk,istqdqogidxiyoxnil ujdilvx didjqir vdqttloqloisltdrixcidjq
njleq?iGhgiqt ghdqiRd vv,ibx odqgi sxoikx tialsrdlo,igqeh.qtieqad tqr
xoidjqiloldxbkixcidjqiAqdlaql;ilogivkijqesixcidjqinhogelrr,ijxegi sil
rsqahbqoithvicxtiqpjhvhdhxo?iQpselhoidjkrqec,iHrjblqemiAloikx ielogil
c ee-utxnoinjleqixoikx tigqayicxtiqplbholdhxo,ilriliaxxyighrjqril
txlrd-shu?iR tqekioxdmiLi.qthdlveqinhdoqrrijl.qikx ijhdjqtdxivqqo,
Hrjblqe;iv dijl.qilialtqijxnikx irqhwqidjqisth.hequqixciFxoljilexoq;
djqisth.hequqixcighrax trhoui sxoidjqifxhrdrilogivqlbr;idjqitlcdqtr,
thguq-sxeq,ireqqsqtr,ilogi ogqt-shoohour,iblyhoui sidjqictlbq-nxtyixc
eq.hldjlo;ilogivqehyqixcidjqidleexn-.ldr,iglhtk-txxbr,iv ddqthqr,ilog
ajqqrqthqrihoijhrivxnqerm

Hiaxocqrr,idjldirhoaqiFxolj,icqninjleqbqoijl.qisqoqdtldqgi.qtkiclt
vqoqldjidjqiryhoixcidjqilg edinjleq;ioq.qtdjqeqrr,iHijl.qivqqoiveqrrqg
nhdjiloixssxtd ohdkidxighrrqadijhbihoibhohld tqmiHoilirjhsiHivqexouqg
dx,ilirbleeia viRsqtbiNjleqinlrixoaqivxghekijxhrdqgidxidjqigqayicxtijhr
sxyqixtivlu,idxiblyqirjqldjricxtidjqivltvrixcidjqijltsxxor,ilogicxtidjq
jqlgrixcidjqieloaqrmiDjhoyikx iHieqdidjldiajloaqiux,inhdjx di rhouibk
vxld-jldajqdilogiflay-yohcq,ilogivtqlyhouidjqirqleilogitqlghouileeidjq
axodqodrixcidjldikx ouia v?

Logilricxtibkiqpladiyoxneqguqixcidjqivxoqrixcidjqieq.hldjloihoidjqht
uhulodha,ic eeiutxnoigq.qexsbqod,icxtidjlditltqiyoxneqguqiHilbihogqvdqg
dxibkieldqitxkleicthqogiDtloz x,iyhouixciDtloz q,ixoqixcidjqiLtrlahgqrm
CxtivqhouildiDtloz q,ikqltrilux,injqoilddlajqgidxidjqidtlghou-rjhsiGqk
xciLeuhqtr,iHinlriho.hdqgidxirsqogisltdixcidjqiLtrlahgqloijxehglkrinhdj
djqiextgixciDtloz q,ildijhritqdhtqgislebi.heelildiS sqeel;ilirql-rhgq
ueqoioxdi.qtkicltighrdlodictxbinjldix tirlhextrialeeqgiVlbvxx-Dxno,ijhr
alshdlem

Lbxouiblokixdjqtichoqiz lehdhqr,ibkitxkleicthqogiDtloz x,ivqhouiuhcdqg
nhdjiligq.x diex.qicxtileeiblddqtrixcivltvlthai.qtd ,ijlgivtx ujd
dxuqdjqtihoiS sqeelinjldq.qtitltqidjhouridjqibxtqihouqohx rixcijhr
sqxseqiax egiho.qod;iajhqcekialt.qginxxgrixcinxogqtc eigq.haqr,
ajhrqeeqgirjqeer,ihoelhgirsqltr,iaxrdekislggeqr,iltxbldhaialoxqr;ilog
leeidjqrqighrdthv dqgilbxouinjldq.qtiold tleinxogqtr,idjq
nxogqt-ctqhujdqg,idthv dq-tqogqthouinl.qrijlgialrdi sxoijhrirjxtqrm

AjhqcilbxouidjqrqielddqtinlriliutqldiRsqtbiNjleq,injhaj,ilcdqtilo
 o r leekiexouitluhouiuleq,ijlgivqqoicx ogigqlgilogirdtlogqg,inhdjijhr
jqlgilulhordiliaxaxl-o didtqq,injxrqise bluq-ehyq,id cdqgigtxxshour
rqqbqgijhri.qtglodifqdmiNjqoidjqi.lrdivxgkijlgildielrdivqqoirdthssqgixc
hdricldjxb-gqqsiqocxeghour,ilogidjqivxoqrivqaxbqig rdigtkihoidjqir o,
djqoidjqiryqeqdxoinlrialtqc eekidtlorsxtdqgi sidjqiS sqeeliueqo,injqtq
liutlogidqbseqixciextgekislebrioxnirjqedqtqgihdm

Djqithvrinqtqij ouinhdjidtxsjhqr;idjqi.qtdqvtæinqtqialt.qginhdj
Ltrlahgqloilooler,ihoirdtlouqijhqtxueksjhar;ihoidjqiry ee,idjqisthqrdr
yqsdi siloi oqpdhou hrjqgiltxbldhaicelbq,irxidjldidjqibkrdhaijqlgilulho
rqodicxtdjihdri.lsxtkirsx d;injheq,ir rsqogqgictxbilivx uj,idjq
dqtthchaiexnqtiflni.hvtldqgix.qtileeidjqigq.xdqqr,iehyqidjqijlht-j ou
rnxtgidjldirxilccthujdqgiGlbxaeqrm

Hdinlrilinxogtx rirhujdmiDjqinxxginlriutqqoilribxrrqrixcidjqiHakiUeqo;
djqidtqqrirdxxgijhujilogijl ujdk,icqqehouidjqhtieh.houirls;idjq
hog rdthx riqltdjivqoqldjinlrilrilinql.qt’riexxb,inhdjiliuxtuqx r
altsqdixoihd,injqtqxcidjqiutx og-.hoqidqogthericxtbqgidjqinltsilog
nxxc,ilogidjqieh.houicexnqtridjqichu tqrmiLeeidjqidtqqr,inhdjileeidjqht
elgqoivtloajqr;ileeidjqirjt vr,ilogicqtor,ilogiutlrrqr;idjq
bqrrluq-alttkhouilht;ileeidjqrqi oaqlrhouekinqtqiladh.qmiDjtx ujidjq
elahourixcidjqieql.qr,idjqiutqldir oirqqbqgilicekhouirj ddeqinql.hou
djqi onqlthqgi.qtg tqmiXj,iv rkinql.qt!i orqqoinql.qt!—sl rq!—xoq
nxtg!—njhdjqticexnridjqiclvtha?injldislelaqiblkihdigqay?injqtqcxtqilee
djqrqiaqlrqeqrridxhehour?iRsqly,inql.qt!—rdlkidjkijlog!—v dixoqirhoueq
nxtginhdjidjqq!iOlk—djqirj ddeqicehqr—djqichu tqricexldictxbicxtdjidjq
exxb;idjqictqrjqd-t rjhouialtsqdicxtiq.qtirehgqrilnlkmiDjqinql.qt-uxg,
jqinql.qr;ilogivkidjldinql.houihrijqigqlcqoqg,idjldijqijqltrioxibxtdle
.xhaq;ilogivkidjldij bbhou,inq,idxx,injxiexxyixoidjqiexxbiltqigqlcqoqg;
logixoekinjqoinqiqralsqihdirjleeinqijqltidjqidjx rlogi.xhaqridjldirsqly
djtx ujihdmiCxtiq.qoirxihdihrihoileeibldqthleicladxthqrmiDjqirsxyqo
nxtgridjldiltqihol ghveqilbxouidjqicekhouirshogeqr;idjxrqirlbqinxtgr
ltqiselhoekijqltginhdjx didjqinleer,iv trdhouictxbidjqixsqoqg
alrqbqodrmiDjqtqvkijl.qi.heelhohqrivqqoigqdqadqgmiLj,ibxtdle!idjqo,ivq
jqqgc e;icxtirx,ihoileeidjhrighoixcidjqiutqldinxteg’riexxb,idjk
r vdeqrdidjhoyhouriblkivqix.qtjqltgilcltm

Oxn,ilbhgidjqiutqqo,iehcq-tqrdeqrriexxbixcidjldiLtrlahgqloinxxg,idjq
utqld,injhdq,inxtrjhssqgiryqeqdxoielkiex ouhou—liuhulodhaihgeqt!iKqd,
lridjqiq.qt-nx.qoi.qtglodinltsiloginxxcihodqtbhpqgilogij bbqgiltx og
jhb,idjqibhujdkihgeqtirqqbqgidjqia oohouinql.qt;ijhbrqecileeinx.qoix.qt
nhdjidjqi.hoqr;iq.qtkibxodjilrr bhouiutqqoqt,ictqrjqti.qtg tq;iv d
jhbrqeciliryqeqdxomiEhcqicxegqgiGqldj;iGqldjidtqeehrqgiEhcq;idjqiuthb
uxginh.qginhdjikx djc eiEhcq,ilogivquldijhbia tek-jqlgqgiuexthqrm

Oxn,injqoinhdjitxkleiDtloz xiHi.hrhdqgidjhrinxogtx rinjleq,ilogirlnidjq
ry eeiloiledlt,ilogidjqiltdhchahleirbxyqilraqoghouictxbinjqtqidjqitqle
fqdijlgihrr qg,iHiblt.qeeqgidjldidjqiyhouirjx egitqultgiliajlsqeilrilo
xvfqadixci.qtd miJqiel ujqgmiV dibxtqiHiblt.qeeqgidjldidjqisthqrdr
rjx egirnqltidjldirbxykifqdixcijhrinlriuqo hoqmiDxilogictxiHislaqg
vqcxtqidjhriryqeqdxo—vt rjqgidjqi.hoqrilrhgq—vtxyqidjtx ujidjqithvr—log
nhdjilivleeixciLtrlahgqloidnhoq,inlogqtqg,iqgghqgiexouilbhgihdriblok
nhoghou,irjlgqgiaxexoolgqrilogiltvx trmiV dirxxoibkiehoqinlrix d;ilog
cxeexnhouihdivlay,iHiqbqtuqgictxbidjqixsqohouinjqtqiHiqodqtqgmiHirlniox
eh.houidjhouinhdjho;iol ujdinlridjqtqiv divxoqrm

A ddhouibqiliutqqoibqlr thou-txg,iHixoaqibxtqigh.qginhdjhoidjq
ryqeqdxomiCtxbidjqhtilttxn-rehdihoidjqiry ee,idjqisthqrdrisqtaqh.qgibq
dlyhouidjqiledhd gqixcidjqicholeithv,i“Jxnioxn!”idjqkirjx dqg;i“Glt’rd
djx ibqlr tqidjhrix tiuxg!iDjld’ricxti rm”i“Lkq,isthqrdr—nqee,ijxniexou
gxikqiblyqijhb,idjqo?”iV dijqtq sxoilichqtaqiaxodqrditxrqilbxouidjqb,
axoaqtohouicqqdilogihoajqr;idjqkiatlayqgiqlajixdjqt’riraxoaqrinhdj
djqhtikltg-rdhayr—djqiutqldiry eeiqajxqg—logirqhwhouidjldie aykiajloaq,
Hiz hayekiaxoae gqgibkixnoilgbqlr tqbqodrm

Djqrqilgbqlr tqbqodriHioxnistxsxrqidxirqdivqcxtqikx miV dichtrd,ivqihd
tqaxtgqg,idjld,ihoidjhriblddqt,iHilbioxdictqqidxi ddqtilokicloahqg
bqlr tqbqodiHiseqlrqmiVqal rqidjqtqiltqiryqeqdxoil djxthdhqrikx ialo
tqcqtidx,idxidqrdibkilaa tlakmiDjqtqihriliEq.hldjlohaiB rq b,idjqkidqee
bq,ihoiJ ee,iQouelog,ixoqixcidjqinjlehouisxtdrixcidjldiax odtk,injqtq
djqkijl.qirxbqichoqirsqahbqorixcicho-vlayrilogixdjqtinjleqrmiEhyqnhrq,
Hijl.qijqltgidjldihoidjqib rq bixciBloajqrdqt,ihoiOqniJlbsrjhtq,idjqk
jl.qinjldidjqistxsthqdxtrialeei“djqixoekisqtcqadirsqahbqoixcil
UtqqoelogixtiTh.qtiNjleqihoidjqi ohdqgiRdldqrm”iBxtqx.qt,ildiliselaqiho
Kxtyrjhtq,iQouelog,iV tdxoiAxordlveqivkiolbq,iliaqtdlhoiRhtiAehccxtg
AxordlveqijlrihoijhrisxrrqrrhxoidjqiryqeqdxoixciliRsqtbiNjleq,iv dixc
bxgqtldqirhwq,ivkioxibqlorixcidjqic ee-utxnoibluohd gqixcibkicthqog
YhouiDtloz x’rm

Hoivxdjialrqr,idjqirdtlogqginjleqridxinjhajidjqrqidnxiryqeqdxor
vqexouqg,inqtqixthuholeekiaelhbqgivkidjqhtistxsthqdxtri sxoirhbhelt
utx ogrmiYhouiDtloz xirqhwhouijhrivqal rqijqinlodqgihd;ilogiRht
Aehccxtg,ivqal rqijqinlriextgixcidjqirqhuoxthqrixcidjxrqisltdrmiRht
Aehccxtg’rinjleqijlrivqqoiltdha eldqgidjtx ujx d;irxidjld,iehyqiliutqld
ajqrdixcigtlnqtr,ikx ialoixsqoilogirj dijhb,ihoileeijhrivxok
al.hdhqr—rstqlgix dijhrithvriehyqiliuhulodhaiclo—logirnhouileeiglki sxo
jhriexnqtiflnmiExayriltqidxivqis di sxoirxbqixcijhridtls-gxxtrilog
rj ddqtr;ilogilicxxdbloinheeirjxnitx ogic d tqi.hrhdxtrinhdjiliv oajixc
yqkrildijhrirhgqmiRhtiAehccxtgidjhoyrixciajltuhouidnxsqoaqicxtilisqqs
ldidjqinjhrsqthouiuleeqtkihoidjqirsholeiaxe bo;idjtqqsqoaqidxijqltidjq
qajxihoidjqijxeexnixcijhriaqtqvqee b;ilogirhpsqoaqicxtidjqi oth.leeqg
.hqnictxbijhricxtqjqlgm

DjqiryqeqdxoighbqorhxoriHirjleeioxnistxaqqgidxirqdigxnoiltqiaxshqg
.qtvldhbictxbibkithujdiltb,injqtqiHijlgidjqbidlddxxqg;ilrihoibkinheg
nlogqthourildidjldisqthxg,idjqtqinlrioxixdjqtirqa tqinlkixcistqrqt.hou
r aji.le lveqirdldhrdharmiV dilriHinlriatxngqgicxtirslaq,iloginhrjqg
djqixdjqtisltdrixcibkivxgkidxitqblhoiliveloyisluqicxtilisxqbiHinlridjqo
axbsxrhou—ldieqlrd,injldi odlddxxqgisltdribhujditqblho—Highgioxd
dtx veqibkrqecinhdjidjqixggihoajqr;ioxt,ihogqqg,irjx egihoajqrildilee
qodqtihodxiliaxouqohleilgbqlr tqbqodixcidjqinjleqm


AJLSDQTi103miBqlr tqbqodixciDjqiNjleq’riRyqeqdxom

Hoidjqichtrdiselaq,iHinhrjidxielkivqcxtqikx ilisltdha elt,iselho
rdldqbqod,idx ajhouidjqieh.houiv eyixcidjhrieq.hldjlo,injxrqiryqeqdxo
nqiltqivthqcekidxiqpjhvhdmiR ajilirdldqbqodiblkistx.qi rqc eijqtqm

Laaxtghouidxilialtqc eialea eldhxoiHijl.qiblgq,iloginjhajiHisltdekivlrq
 sxoiAlsdlhoiRaxtqrvk’riqrdhbldq,ixcirq.qodkidxoricxtidjqieltuqrdirhwqg
Utqqoeloginjleqixcirhpdkicqqdihoieqoudj;ilaaxtghouidxibkialtqc e
alea eldhxo,iHirlk,iliRsqtbiNjleqixcidjqieltuqrdibluohd gq,ivqdnqqo
qhujdk-ch.qilogiohoqdkicqqdihoieqoudj,ilogirxbqdjhouieqrridjloicxtdk
cqqdihoihdric eeqrdiahta bcqtqoaq,ir ajilinjleqinheeinqhujildieqlrd
ohoqdkidxor;irxidjld,itqayxohouidjhtdqqoibqoidxilidxo,ijqinx eg
axorhgqtlvekix dnqhujidjqiaxbvhoqgisxs eldhxoixcilinjxeqi.heeluqixcixoq
djx rlogixoqij ogtqgihojlvhdlodrm

Djhoyikx ioxdidjqoidjldivtlhor,iehyqikxyqgialddeq,irjx egivqis didx
djhrieq.hldjlo,idxiblyqijhbildileeiv guqidxilokielogrblo’rihbluholdhxo?

Jl.houiletqlgkihoi.lthx rinlkris divqcxtqikx ijhriry ee,irsx d-jxeq,
fln,idqqdj,idlhe,icxtqjqlg,ichor,ilogigh.qtrixdjqtisltdr,iHirjleeioxn
rhbsekisxhodix dinjldihribxrdihodqtqrdhouihoidjqiuqoqtleiv eyixcijhr
 oxvrdt adqgivxoqrmiV dilridjqiaxexrrleiry eeiqbvtlaqrirxi.qtkieltuqil
stxsxtdhxoixcidjqiqodhtqiqpdqodixcidjqiryqeqdxo;ilrihdihrivkicltidjq
bxrdiaxbsehaldqgisltd;ilogilrioxdjhouihridxivqitqsqldqgiaxoaqtohouihd
hoidjhriajlsdqt,ikx ib rdioxdiclheidxialttkihdihoikx tibhog,ixti ogqt
kx tiltb,ilrinqistxaqqg,ixdjqtnhrqikx inheeioxdiulhoiliaxbseqdqioxdhxo
xcidjqiuqoqtleirdt ad tqinqiltqilvx didxi.hqnm

Hoieqoudj,idjqiRsqtbiNjleq’riryqeqdxoildiDtloz qibqlr tqgirq.qodk-dnx
cqqd;irxidjldinjqoic eekiho.qrdqgilogiqpdqogqgihoiehcq,ijqib rdijl.q
vqqoiohoqdkicqqdiexou;icxtihoidjqinjleq,idjqiryqeqdxoiexrqrilvx dixoq
chcdjihoieqoudjiaxbsltqginhdjidjqieh.houivxgkmiXcidjhrirq.qodk-dnx
cqqd,ijhriry eeilogiflniaxbsthrqgirxbqidnqodkicqqd,ieql.houirxbqichcdk
cqqdixciselhoivlay-vxoqmiLddlajqgidxidjhrivlay-vxoq,icxtirxbqdjhouieqrr
djloilidjhtgixcihdrieqoudj,inlridjqibhujdkiahta eltivlryqdixcithvr
njhajixoaqiqoaexrqgijhri.hdlerm

Dxibqidjhri.lrdih.xtk-thvvqgiajqrd,inhdjidjqiexou,i otqehq.qgirshoq,
qpdqoghouicltilnlkictxbihdihoilirdtlhujdiehoq,ioxdiliehddeqitqrqbveqg
djqij eeixciliutqldirjhsioqn-elhgi sxoidjqirdxayr,injqoixoekirxbq
dnqodkixcijqtiolyqgivxn-thvriltqihorqtdqg,ilogidjqiyqqeihrixdjqtnhrq,
cxtidjqidhbq,iv diliexou,ighraxooqadqgidhbvqtm

DjqithvrinqtqidqoixoilirhgqmiDjqichtrd,idxivquhoictxbidjqioqay,inlr
oqltekirhpicqqdiexou;idjqirqaxog,idjhtg,ilogicx tdjinqtqiqlaj
r aaqrrh.qekiexouqt,idheeikx ialbqidxidjqiaehblpixcidjqichcdj,ixtixoq
xcidjqibhggeqithvr,injhajibqlr tqgiqhujdicqqdilogirxbqihoajqrmiCtxb
djldisltd,idjqitqblhohouithvrighbhohrjqg,idheeidjqidqodjilogielrdixoek
rslooqgich.qicqqdilogirxbqihoajqrmiHoiuqoqtleidjhayoqrr,idjqkileeivxtq
lirqqbekiaxttqrsxogqoaqidxidjqhtieqoudjmiDjqibhggeqithvrinqtqidjqibxrd
ltajqgmiHoirxbqixcidjqiLtrlahgqridjqkiltqi rqgicxtivqlbrinjqtqxoidxielk
cxxdsldjivthguqrix.qtirbleeirdtqlbrm

Hoiaxorhgqthouidjqrqithvr,iHiax egioxdiv divqirdt ayiloqninhdjidjq
ahta brdloaq,irxi.lthx rekitqsqldqgihoidjhrivxxy,idjldidjqiryqeqdxoixc
djqinjleqihrivkioxibqloridjqibx egixcijhriho.qrdqgicxtbmiDjqieltuqrdixc
djqiDtloz qithvr,ixoqixcidjqibhggeqixoqr,ixaa shqgidjldisltdixcidjq
chrjinjhaj,ihoiehcq,ihriutqldqrdihoigqsdjmiOxn,idjqiutqldqrdigqsdjixc
djqiho.qrdqgivxgkixcidjhrisltdha eltinjleqib rdijl.qivqqoildieqlrd
rhpdqqoicqqd;injqtqlr,idjqiaxttqrsxoghouithvibqlr tqgiv diehddeqibxtq
djloiqhujdicqqdmiRxidjldidjhrithvixoekiaxo.qkqgijlecixcidjqidt qioxdhxo
xcidjqieh.houibluohd gqixcidjldisltdmiVqrhgqr,icxtirxbqinlk,injqtqiH
oxnirlniv diliolyqgirshoq,ileeidjldijlgivqqoixoaqintlssqgitx oginhdj
dxorixcilggqgiv eyihoiceqrj,ib raeq,ivexxg,ilogivxnqermiRdheeibxtq,icxt
djqilbseqichor,iHijqtqirlniv dilicqnighrxtgqtqgifxhodr;ilogihoiselaqixc
djqinqhujdkilogiblfqrdha,iv divxoqeqrrice yqr,iloi ddqtiveloy!

Jxni.lhoilogicxxehrj,idjqo,idjx ujdiH,icxtidhbhgi odtl.qeeqgibloidxidtk
dxiaxbstqjqogilthujdidjhrinxogtx rinjleq,ivkibqtqekisxthouix.qtijhr
gqlgilddqo ldqgiryqeqdxo,irdtqdajqgihoidjhrisqlaqc einxxgmiOxmiXoekiho
djqijqltdixciz hayqrdisqther;ixoekinjqoinhdjhoidjqiqggkhourixcijhr
loutkice yqr;ixoekixoidjqistxcx ogi ovx ogqgirql,ialoidjqic eek
ho.qrdqginjleqivqidt ekilogieh.houekicx ogix dm

V didjqirshoqmiCxtidjld,idjqivqrdinlkinqialoiaxorhgqtihdihr,inhdjil
atloq,idxisheqihdrivxoqrijhuji sixoiqogmiOxirsqqgkiqodqtsthrqmiV dioxn
hd’rigxoq,ihdiexxyrib ajiehyqiSxbsqk’riSheeltm

Djqtqiltqicxtdkilogixggi.qtdqvtæihoilee,injhajihoidjqiryqeqdxoiltqioxd
exayqgidxuqdjqtmiDjqkibxrdekiehqiehyqidjqiutqldiyoxvvqgivexayrixoil
Uxdjhairshtq,icxtbhouirxehgiax trqrixcijql.kiblrxotkmiDjqieltuqrd,il
bhggeqixoq,ihrihoinhgdjirxbqdjhouieqrridjloidjtqqicqqd,ilogihoigqsdj
bxtqidjloicx tmiDjqirbleeqrd,injqtqidjqirshoqidlsqtrilnlkihodxidjq
dlhe,ihrixoekidnxihoajqrihoinhgdj,ilogiexxyrirxbqdjhouiehyqilinjhdq
vheehltg-vleemiHinlridxegidjldidjqtqinqtqirdheeirbleeqtixoqr,iv didjqk
jlgivqqoiexrdivkirxbqiehddeqialoohvlei tajhor,idjqisthqrd’riajhegtqo,
njxijlgirdxeqoidjqbidxiselkibltveqrinhdjmiDj rinqirqqijxnidjldidjq
rshoqixciq.qoidjqij uqrdixcieh.houidjhouridlsqtrixccildielrdihodx
rhbseqiajheg’riselkm


AJLSDQTi104miDjqiCxrrheiNjleqm

Ctxbijhribhujdkiv eyidjqinjleqilccxtgrilibxrdiaxouqohleidjqbqinjqtqxo
dxiqoeltuq,ilbsehck,ilogiuqoqtleekiqpsldhldqmiNx egikx ,ikx iax egioxd
axbstqrrijhbmiVkiuxxgithujdrijqirjx egixoekivqidtqldqgixcihoihbsqthle
cxehxmiOxdidxidqeeix.qtilulhoijhric texourictxbirshtlaeqidxidlhe,ilog
djqikltgrijqibqlr tqrilvx didjqinlhrd;ixoekidjhoyixcidjqiuhulodha
ho.xe dhxorixcijhrihodqrdhoqr,injqtqidjqkiehqihoijhbiehyqiutqldialveqr
logijlnrqtriaxheqgilnlkihoidjqir vdqttloqloixtexs-gqayixcil
ehoq-xc-vlddeq-rjhsm

RhoaqiHijl.qi ogqtdlyqoidxiblojlogeqidjhriEq.hldjlo,ihdivqjxx.qribqidx
lsstx.qibkrqecixbohrahqodekiqpjl rdh.qihoidjqiqodqtsthrq;ioxd
x.qtexxyhouidjqibho dqrdirqbholeiuqtbrixcijhrivexxg,ilogirshoohouijhb
x didxidjqi ddqtbxrdiaxheixcijhrivxnqermiJl.houiletqlgkigqrathvqgijhb
hoibxrdixcijhristqrqodijlvhdldxtkilogiloldxbhaleisqa ehlthdhqr,ihdioxn
tqblhoridxibluohckijhbihoiloiltajæxexuhale,icxrrhehcqtx r,ilog
lodqghe .hloisxhodixci.hqnmiLssehqgidxilokixdjqtiatqld tqidjloidjq
Eq.hldjlo—dxiloilodixtiliceql—r ajisxtdekidqtbribhujdif rdekivqigqqbqg
 onlttlodlvekiutloghexz qodmiV dinjqoiEq.hldjloihridjqidqpd,idjqialrq
hriledqtqgmiClhoilbiHidxirdluuqtidxidjhriqbsthrqi ogqtidjqinqhujdhqrd
nxtgrixcidjqighadhxoltkmiLogijqtqivqihdirlhg,idjldinjqoq.qtihdijlrivqqo
axo.qohqodidxiaxor edixoqihoidjqiax trqixcidjqrqighrrqtdldhxor,iHijl.q
ho.lthlveki rqgilij uqiz ltdxiqghdhxoixciFxjorxo,iqpstqrrekis tajlrqg
cxtidjldis tsxrq;ivqal rqidjldiclbx rieqphaxutlsjqt’ri oaxbbxoisqtrxole
v eyibxtqichddqgijhbidxiaxbsheqilieqphaxoidxivqi rqgivkilinjleqil djxt
ehyqibqm

Xoqixcdqoijqltrixcinthdqtridjldithrqilogirnqeeinhdjidjqhtir vfqad,
djx ujihdiblkirqqbiv diloixtgholtkixoqmiJxn,idjqo,inhdjibq,inthdhouixc
djhriEq.hldjlo?i oaxorahx rekibkiajhtxutlsjkiqpslogrihodxiselaltg
alshdlermiUh.qibqiliaxogxt’riz hee!iUh.qibqi.qr .h r’iatldqticxtilo
hoyrdlog!iCthqogr,ijxegibkiltbr!iCxtihoidjqibqtqiladixcisqoohouibk
djx ujdrixcidjhriEq.hldjlo,idjqkinqltkibq,ilogiblyqibqiclhodinhdjidjqht
x dtqlajhouiaxbstqjqorh.qoqrrixcirnqqs,ilrihcidxihoae gqidjqinjxeq
ahtaeqixcidjqirahqoaqr,ilogileeidjqiuqoqtldhxorixcinjleqr,ilogibqo,ilog
blrdxgxor,islrd,istqrqod,ilogidxiaxbq,inhdjileeidjqitq.xe.houisloxtlblr
xciqbshtqixoiqltdj,ilogidjtx ujx didjqinjxeqi oh.qtrq,ioxdiqpae ghou
hdrir v tvrmiR aj,ilogirxibluohckhou,ihridjqi.htd qixcilieltuqilog
ehvqtleidjqbq!iNqiqpslogidxihdriv eymiDxistxg aqilibhujdkivxxy,ikx 
b rdiajxxrqilibhujdkidjqbqmiOxiutqldilogiqog thoui.xe bqialoiq.qtivq
nthddqoixoidjqiceql,idjx ujiblokidjqtqivqinjxijl.qidthqgihdm

Qtqiqodqthoui sxoidjqir vfqadixciCxrrheiNjleqr,iHistqrqodibk
atqgqodhlerilriliuqxexuhrd,ivkirdldhouidjldihoibkibhraqeeloqx ridhbqiH
jl.qivqqoilirdxoq-blrxo,ilogilerxiliutqldighuuqtixcighdajqr,ialolerilog
nqeer,inhoq-.l edr,iaqeeltr,ilogiahrdqtorixcileeirxtdrmiEhyqnhrq,ivk
nlkixcistqehbholtk,iHigqrhtqidxitqbhogidjqitqlgqt,idjldinjheqihoidjq
qltehqtiuqxexuhaleirdtldlidjqtqiltqicx ogidjqicxrrherixcibxordqtrioxn
lebxrdiaxbseqdqekiqpdhoad;idjqir vrqz qoditqeharighrax.qtqgihoinjldiltq
aleeqgidjqiDqtdhltkicxtbldhxorirqqbidjqiaxooqadhou,ixtildilokitldq
hodqtaqsdqgiehoyr,ivqdnqqoidjqilodhajtxohaleiatqld tqr,ilogidjxrqinjxrq
tqbxdqisxrdqthdkiltqirlhgidxijl.qiqodqtqgidjqiLty;ileeidjqiCxrrhe
Njleqrijhdjqtdxighrax.qtqgivqexouidxidjqiDqtdhltkisqthxg,injhajihridjq
elrdistqaqghouidjqir sqtchahleicxtbldhxormiLogidjx ujioxoqixcidjqb
stqahrqekilornqtidxilokiyoxnoirsqahqrixcidjqistqrqodidhbq,idjqkiltqikqd
r cchahqodekilyhoidxidjqbihoiuqoqtleitqrsqadr,idxif rdhckidjqhtidlyhou
tloyilriAqdlaqloicxrrherm

Gqdlajqgivtxyqoicxrrherixcistq-lglbhdqinjleqr,ictlubqodrixcidjqhtivxoqr
logiryqeqdxor,ijl.qinhdjhoidjhtdkikqltrislrd,ildi.lthx rihodqt.ler,
vqqoicx ogildidjqivlrqixcidjqiLesr,ihoiExbvltgk,ihoiCtloaq,ihoiQouelog,
hoiRaxdelog,ilogihoidjqiRdldqrixciEx hrhlol,iBhrrhrrhssh,ilogiLelvlblm
Lbxouidjqibxtqia thx rixcir ajitqblhorihrisltdixciliry ee,injhajihoidjq
kqlti1779inlrighrhodqttqgihoidjqiT qiGl sjhoqihoiSlthr,ilirjxtdirdtqqd
xsqohouilebxrdightqadeki sxoidjqislelaqixcidjqiD heqthqr;ilogivxoqr
ghrhodqttqgihoiqpal.ldhouidjqiutqldigxayrixciLodnqts,ihoiOlsxeqxo’r
dhbqmiA .hqtistxox oaqgidjqrqictlubqodridxijl.qivqexouqgidxirxbq
 ddqteki oyoxnoiEq.hldjlohairsqahqrm

V divkicltidjqibxrdinxogqtc eixcileeiAqdlaqloitqeharinlridjqilebxrd
axbseqdqi.lrdiryqeqdxoixciloiqpdhoadibxordqt,icx ogihoidjqikqlti1842,
xoidjqiselodldhxoixciF guqiAtqluj,ihoiLelvlblmiDjqilnq-rdthayqo
atqg ex rirel.qrihoidjqi.hahohdkidxxyihdicxtidjqivxoqrixcixoqixcidjq
cleeqoilouqermiDjqiLelvlbligxadxtrigqaeltqgihdilij uqitqsdheq,ilog
vqrdxnqgi sxoihdidjqiolbqixciVlrhexrl t rmiV dirxbqirsqahbqoivxoqrixc
hdivqhouidlyqoilatxrridjqirqlidxiXnqo,idjqiQouehrjiLoldxbhrd,ihdid toqg
x didjldidjhrileequqgitqsdheqinlrilinjleq,idjx ujixciligqsltdqg
rsqahqrmiLirhuohchalodihee rdtldhxoixcidjqiclad,ilulhoilogilulho
tqsqldqgihoidjhrivxxy,idjldidjqiryqeqdxoixcidjqinjleqic tohrjqriv d
ehddeqiae qidxidjqirjlsqixcijhric eekiho.qrdqgivxgkmiRxiXnqo
tqajthrdqoqgidjqibxordqtiWq uexgxo;ilogihoijhrislsqtitqlgivqcxtqidjq
ExogxoiUqxexuhaleiRxahqdk,istxox oaqgihd,ihoir vrdloaq,ixoqixcidjqibxrd
qpdtlxtgholtkiatqld tqrinjhajidjqib dldhxorixcidjqiuexvqijl.qivexddqg
x dixciqphrdqoaqm

NjqoiHirdlogilbxouidjqrqibhujdkiEq.hldjloiryqeqdxor,iry eer,id ryr,
flnr,ithvr,ilogi.qtdqvtæ,ileeiajltladqthwqgivkisltdhleitqrqbveloaqridx
djqiqphrdhouivtqqgrixcirql-bxordqtr;iv dildidjqirlbqidhbqivqlthouixo
djqixdjqtijlogirhbheltilcchohdhqridxidjqiloohjheldqgilodhajtxohale
Eq.hldjlor,idjqhtihoalea elveqirqohxtr;iHilb,ivkilicexxg,ivxtoqivlayidx
djldinxogtx risqthxg,iqtqidhbqihdrqecialoivqirlhgidxijl.qivqu o;icxt
dhbqivquloinhdjiblomiJqtqiRld to’riutqkiajlxritxeerix.qtibq,ilogiH
xvdlhoighb,irj ggqthouiuehbsrqrihodxidjxrqiSxeltiqdqtohdhqr;injqo
nqguqgivlrdhxorixcihaqistqrrqgijltgi sxoinjldiltqioxnidjqiDtxshar;ilog
hoileeidjqi25,000ibheqrixcidjhrinxteg’riahta bcqtqoaq,ioxdilo
hojlvhdlveqijlog’rivtqlgdjixcieloginlri.hrhveqmiDjqoidjqinjxeqinxteg
nlridjqinjleq’r;ilog,iyhouixciatqldhxo,ijqieqcdijhrinlyqilexouidjq
stqrqodiehoqrixcidjqiLogqrilogidjqiJhbbleqjrmiNjxialoirjxnilisqghutqq
ehyqiEq.hldjlo?iLjlv’rijltsxxoijlgirjqgixegqtivexxgidjloidjqiSjltlxj’rm
Bqdj rqeljirqqbrilirajxxe-vxkmiHiexxyitx ogidxirjlyqijlogrinhdjiRjqbmiH
lbijxttxt-rdt ayildidjhrilodqbxrlha,i orx taqgiqphrdqoaqixcidjq
 orsqlylveqidqttxtrixcidjqinjleq,injhaj,ijl.houivqqoivqcxtqileeidhbq,
b rdioqqgriqphrdilcdqtileeij bloqiluqriltqix.qtm

V dioxdilexoqijlridjhriEq.hldjloieqcdijhristq-lglbhdqidtlaqrihoidjq
rdqtqxdksqiseldqrixciold tq,ilogihoiehbqrdxoqilogiblteivqz qldjqgijhr
loahqodiv rd;iv di sxoiQuksdhloidlveqdr,injxrqilodhz hdkirqqbridxiaelhb
cxtidjqbiloilebxrdicxrrhehcqtx riajltladqt,inqichogidjqi obhrdlylveq
sthodixcijhrichomiHoiloilsltdbqodixcidjqiutqldidqbseqixciGqogqtlj,irxbq
chcdkikqltrilux,idjqtqinlrighrax.qtqgi sxoidjqiutlohdqiaqhehouil
ra esd tqgilogislhodqgiselohrsjqtq,ilvx oghouihoiaqodl tr,iuthcchor,
logigxesjhor,irhbheltidxidjqiutxdqrz qichu tqrixoidjqiaqeqrdhleiuexvq
xcidjqibxgqtormiUehghouilbxouidjqb,ixegiEq.hldjloirnlbilrixcikxtq;inlr
djqtqirnhbbhouihoidjldiselohrsjqtq,iaqod thqrivqcxtqiRxexbxoinlr
atlgeqgm

Oxtib rdidjqtqivqixbhddqgiloxdjqtirdtlouqilddqrdldhxoixcidjqilodhz hdk
xcidjqinjleq,ihoijhrixnoixrrqx risxrd-ghe .hloitqlehdk,ilrirqdigxnoivk
djqi.qoqtlveqiFxjoiEqx,idjqixegiVltvltkidtl.qeeqtm

“OxdicltictxbidjqiRql-rhgq,idjqkijl.qiliDqbseq,idjqiTlcdqtrilogiVqlbr
xcinjhajiltqiblgqixciNjleq-Vxoqr;icxtiNjleqrixcilibxordtx rirhwqiltq
xcdqodhbqrialrdi sigqlgi sxoidjldirjxtqmiDjqiAxbbxoiSqxseqihbluhoq,
djldivkilirqatqdiSxnqtivqrdxnqgivkiUxgi sxoidjqiDqbseq,ioxiNjleqialo
slrrihdinhdjx dihbbqghldqigqldjmiV didjqidt djixcidjqiBlddqtihr,idjld
xoiqhdjqtirhgqixcidjqiDqbseq,idjqtqiltqiTxayridjldirjxxdidnxiBheqrihodx
djqiRql,iloginx ogidjqiNjleqrinjqoidjqkiehujdi sxoi’qbmiDjqkiyqqsil
Njleq’riThvixciloihoatqghveqieqoudjicxtiliBhtlaeq,injhajiekhoui sxoidjq
Utx oginhdjihdriaxo.qpisltdi ssqtbxrd,iblyqriloiLtaj,idjqiJqlgixcinjhaj
alooxdivqitqlajqgivkiliBloi sxoiliAlbqe’riVlaymiDjhriThvi(rlkriFxjo
Eqx)ihrirlhgidxijl.qielkoidjqtqilij ogtqgiKqltrivqcxtqiHirlnihdmiDjqht
Jhrdxthlorilcchtb,idjldiliStxsjqdinjxistxsjqrk’gixciBljxbqd,ialbqictxb
djhriDqbseq,ilogirxbqigxioxdirdlogidxilrrqtd,idjldidjqiStxsjqdiFxolr
nlrialrdicxtdjivkidjqiNjleqildidjqiVlrqixcidjqiDqbseqm”

HoidjhriLcthaiDqbseqixcidjqiNjleqiHieql.qikx ,itqlgqt,ilogihcikx ivqil
Olod ayqdqt,ilogilinjleqblo,ikx inheeirheqodekinxtrjhsidjqtqm


AJLSDQTi105miGxqridjqiNjleq’riBluohd gqiGhbhohrj?—NheeiJqiSqthrj?

Holrb aj,idjqo,ilridjhriEq.hldjloiaxbqricex ogqthouigxnoi sxoi rictxb
djqijqlg-nldqtrixcidjqiQdqtohdhqr,ihdiblkivqichdekihoz htqg,injqdjqt,
hoidjqiexouiax trqixcijhriuqoqtldhxor,ijqijlrioxdigquqoqtldqgictxbidjq
xthuholeiv eyixcijhrirhtqrm

V di sxoiho.qrdhuldhxoinqichog,idjldioxdixoekiltqidjqinjleqrixcidjq
stqrqodiglkir sqthxtihoibluohd gqidxidjxrqinjxrqicxrrheitqblhoriltq
cx ogihoidjqiDqtdhltkirkrdqbi(qbvtlahouilighrdhoadiuqxexuhaleisqthxg
sthxtidxiblo),iv dixcidjqinjleqricx ogihoidjldiDqtdhltkirkrdqb,idjxrq
vqexouhouidxihdrielddqticxtbldhxoriqpaqqgihoirhwqidjxrqixcihdriqltehqt
xoqrm

Xcileeidjqistq-lglbhdqinjleqrikqdiqpj bqg,ivkicltidjqieltuqrdihridjq
Lelvlblixoqibqodhxoqgihoidjqielrdiajlsdqt,ilogidjldinlrieqrridjlo
rq.qodkicqqdihoieqoudjihoidjqiryqeqdxomiNjqtqlr,inqijl.qiletqlgkirqqo,
djldidjqidlsq-bqlr tqiuh.qrirq.qodk-dnxicqqdicxtidjqiryqeqdxoixcil
eltuqirhwqgibxgqtoinjleqmiLogiHijl.qijqltg,ixoinjleqbqo’ril djxthdk,
djldiRsqtbiNjleqrijl.qivqqoialsd tqgioqltilij ogtqgicqqdiexouildidjq
dhbqixcialsd tqm

V diblkihdioxdivq,idjldinjheqidjqinjleqrixcidjqistqrqodijx tiltqilo
lg.loaqihoibluohd gqi sxoidjxrqixcileeistq.hx riuqxexuhaleisqthxgr;iblk
hdioxdivq,idjldirhoaqiLglb’ridhbqidjqkijl.qigquqoqtldqg?

Lrr tqgek,inqib rdiaxoae gqirx,ihcinqiltqidxiatqghdidjqilaax odrixc
r ajiuqodeqbqoilriSehok,ilogidjqiloahqodiold tlehrdriuqoqtleekmiCxt
Sehokidqeeri rixcinjleqridjldiqbvtlaqgilatqrixcieh.houiv ey,ilog
Legtx.log rixcixdjqtrinjhajibqlr tqgiqhujdij ogtqgicqqdihoieqoudj—Txsq
NleyrilogiDjlbqriD ooqerixciNjleqr!iLogiq.qoihoidjqiglkrixciVloyrilog
Rxelogqt,iAxxyq’riold tlehrdr,inqichogiliGlohrjibqbvqtixcidjqiLalgqbk
xciRahqoaqrirqddhouigxnoiaqtdlhoiHaqelogiNjleqri(tqkglo-rhry t,ixt
NthoyeqgiVqeehqr)ildixoqij ogtqgilogidnqodkikltgr;idjldihr,idjtqq
j ogtqgilogirhpdkicqqdmiLogiElaésègq,idjqiCtqoajiold tlehrd,ihoijhr
qelvxtldqijhrdxtkixcinjleqr,ihoidjqi.qtkivquhoohouixcijhrinxtyi(sluq
3),irqdrigxnoidjqiThujdiNjleqildixoqij ogtqgibqdtqr,idjtqqij ogtqgilog
dnqodk-qhujdicqqdmiLogidjhrinxtyinlris vehrjqgirxieldqilriLmGmi1825m

V dinheeilokinjleqbloivqehq.qidjqrqirdxthqr?iOxmiDjqinjleqixcidx-glkihr
lrivhuilrijhriloaqrdxtrihoiSehok’ridhbqmiLogihciq.qtiHiuxinjqtqiSehok
hr,iH,ilinjleqbloi(bxtqidjloijqinlr),inheeiblyqivxegidxidqeeijhbirxm
Vqal rqiHialooxdi ogqtrdlogijxnihdihr,idjldinjheqidjqiQuksdhloib bbhqr
djldinqtqiv thqgidjx rlogrixcikqltrivqcxtqiq.qoiSehokinlrivxto,igxioxd
bqlr tqirxib ajihoidjqhtiaxcchorilrilibxgqtoiYqod ayhloihoijhrirxayr;
loginjheqidjqialddeqilogixdjqtilohblerira esd tqgixoidjqixegqrd
QuksdhloilogiOhoq.qjidlveqdr,ivkidjqitqeldh.qistxsxtdhxorihoinjhajidjqk
ltqigtlno,if rdilriselhoekistx.qidjldidjqijhuj-vtqg,irdlee-cqg,isthwq
alddeqixciRbhdjchqeg,ioxdixoekiqz le,iv dicltiqpaqqgihoibluohd gqidjq
clddqrdixciSjltlxj’ricldiyhoq;ihoidjqiclaqixcileeidjhr,iHinheeioxd
lgbhdidjldixcileeilohbleridjqinjleqilexoqirjx egijl.qigquqoqtldqgm

V dirdheeiloxdjqtihoz htkitqblhor;ixoqixcdqoiluhdldqgivkidjqibxtq
tqaxoghdqiOlod ayqdqtrmiNjqdjqtixnhouidxidjqilebxrdixbohrahqod
exxy-x drildidjqiblrd-jqlgrixcidjqinjleq-rjhsr,ioxnisqoqdtldhouiq.qo
djtx ujiVqjthou’rirdtlhdr,ilogihodxidjqitqbxdqrdirqatqdigtlnqtrilog
exayqtrixcidjqinxteg;ilogidjqidjx rlogijltsxxorilogieloaqrigltdqgilexou
leeiaxodhoqodleiaxlrdr;idjqibxxdisxhodihr,injqdjqtiEq.hldjloialoiexou
qog tqirxinhgqiliajlrq,ilogirxitqbxtrqeqrrilijl.xa;injqdjqtijqib rdioxd
ldielrdivqiqpdqtbholdqgictxbidjqinldqtr,ilogidjqielrdinjleq,iehyqidjq
elrdiblo,irbxyqijhrielrdishsq,ilogidjqoijhbrqeciq.lsxtldqihoidjqichole
s ccm

Axbslthouidjqij bsqgijqtgrixcinjleqrinhdjidjqij bsqgijqtgrixciv cclex,
njhaj,ioxdicxtdkikqltrilux,ix.qtrstqlgivkidqorixcidjx rlogridjq
stlhthqrixciHeehoxhrilogiBhrrx th,ilogirjxxyidjqhtihtxoibloqrilog
raxneqginhdjidjqhtidj ogqt-aexddqgivtxnri sxoidjqirhdqrixcisxs ex r
th.qt-alshdler,injqtqioxnidjqisxehdqivtxyqtirqeerikx ielogildiligxeelt
loihoaj;ihoir ajiliaxbslthrxoiloihttqrhrdhveqiltu bqodinx egirqqb
c tohrjqg,idxirjxnidjldidjqij odqginjleqialooxdioxniqralsqirsqqgk
qpdhoadhxom

V dikx ib rdiexxyildidjhriblddqtihoiq.qtkiehujdmiDjx ujirxirjxtdil
sqthxgilux—oxdiliuxxgiehcqdhbq—djqiaqor rixcidjqiv cclexihoiHeehoxhr
qpaqqgqgidjqiaqor rixcibqoioxnihoiExogxo,ilogidjx ujildidjqistqrqodiglk
oxdixoqijxtoixtijxxcixcidjqbitqblhorihoileeidjlditquhxo;ilogidjx ujidjq
al rqixcidjhrinxogtx riqpdqtbholdhxoinlridjqirsqltixciblo;ikqdidjqiclt
ghccqtqodiold tqixcidjqinjleq-j odisqtqbsdxthekicxtvhgrirxihouexthx r
loiqogidxidjqiEq.hldjlomiCxtdkibqoihoixoqirjhsij odhouidjqiRsqtbiNjleqr
cxticxtdk-qhujdibxodjridjhoyidjqkijl.qigxoqiqpdtqbqekinqee,ilogidjloy
Uxg,ihcildielrdidjqkialttkijxbqidjqixheixcicxtdkichrjmiNjqtqlr,ihoidjq
glkrixcidjqixegiAlolghloilogiHoghloij odqtrilogidtlssqtrixcidjqiNqrd,
njqoidjqicltinqrdi(hoinjxrqir orqdir orirdheeithrq)inlrilinhegqtoqrr
logili.htuho,idjqirlbqio bvqtixcibxaalrhoqgibqo,icxtidjqirlbqio bvqtixc
bxodjr,ibx odqgixoijxtrqihordqlgixcirlhehouihoirjhsr,inx egijl.qirelho
oxdicxtdk,iv dicxtdkidjx rlogilogibxtqiv cclexqr;ilicladidjld,ihcioqqg
nqtq,iax egivqirdldhrdhaleekirdldqgm

Oxt,iaxorhgqtqgilthujd,igxqrihdirqqbilokiltu bqodihoicl.x tixcidjq
utlg leiqpdhoadhxoixcidjqiRsqtbiNjleq,icxtiqplbseq,idjldihoicxtbqt
kqltri(djqielddqtisltdixcidjqielrdiaqod tk,irlk)idjqrqiEq.hldjlor,iho
rbleeisxgr,inqtqiqoax odqtqgib ajixcdqoqtidjloildistqrqod,ilog,iho
axorqz qoaq,idjqi.xkluqrinqtqioxdirxistxexouqg,iloginqtqilerxib ajibxtq
tqb oqtldh.qmiVqal rq,ilrijlrivqqoiqerqnjqtqioxdhaqg,idjxrqinjleqr,
hoce qoaqgivkirxbqi.hqnridxirlcqdk,ioxnirnhbidjqirqlrihoihbbqorq
altl.lor,irxidjldidxilieltuqigqutqqidjqiralddqtqgirxehdlthqr,ikxyqr,
logisxgr,ilogirajxxerixcixdjqtiglkriltqioxniluutquldqgihodxi.lrdiv d
nhgqekirqsltldqg,i octqz qodiltbhqrmiDjldihrileemiLogiqz leek
cleelahx rirqqbridjqiaxoaqhd,idjldivqal rqidjqirx-aleeqginjleq-vxoq
njleqrioxiexouqtijl odiblokiutx ogrihoicxtbqtikqltrilvx oghouinhdj
djqb,ijqoaqidjldirsqahqrilerxihrigqaehohoumiCxtidjqkiltqixoekivqhou
gth.qoictxbistxbxodxtkidxialsq;ilogihcixoqiaxlrdihrioxiexouqtiqoeh.qoqg
nhdjidjqhtifqdr,idjqo,ivqir tq,irxbqixdjqtilogitqbxdqtirdtlogijlrivqqo
.qtkitqaqodekirdltdeqgivkidjqi oclbhehltirsqadlaeqm

C tdjqtbxtq:iaxoaqtohouidjqrqielrdibqodhxoqgiEq.hldjlor,idjqkijl.qidnx
chtbicxtdtqrrqr,injhaj,ihoileeij bloistxvlvhehdk,inheeicxtiq.qtitqblho
hbstquolveqmiLogilri sxoidjqiho.lrhxoixcidjqhti.leeqkr,idjqictxrdk
Rnhrrijl.qitqdtqldqgidxidjqhtibx odlhor;irx,ij odqgictxbidjqirl.loolr
logiuelgqrixcidjqibhggeqirqlr,idjqinjleq-vxoqinjleqrialoildielrditqrxtd
dxidjqhtiSxeltiahdlgqer,ilogigh.houi ogqtidjqi edhbldqiuelrrkivltthqtr
loginleeridjqtq,iaxbqi silbxouihakichqegrilogicexqr;ilogihoiliajltbqg
ahtaeqixciq.qtelrdhouiGqaqbvqt,ivhgigqchloaqidxileeis tr hdictxbiblom

V dilrisqtjlsrichcdkixcidjqrqinjleq-vxoqinjleqriltqijltsxxoqgicxtixoq
alajlexd,irxbqisjhexrxsjqtrixcidjqicxtqalrdeqijl.qiaxoae gqgidjldidjhr
sxrhdh.qijl.xaijlriletqlgki.qtkirqthx rekighbhohrjqgidjqhtivlddlehxorm
V didjx ujicxtirxbqidhbqislrdilio bvqtixcidjqrqinjleqr,ioxdieqrridjlo
13,000,ijl.qivqqoiloo leekirelhoixoidjqioxt’inqrdiaxlrdivkidjq
Lbqthalorilexoq;ikqdidjqtqiltqiaxorhgqtldhxorinjhajitqogqtiq.qoidjhr
ahta brdloaqixciehddeqixtioxilaax odilriloixssxrhouiltu bqodihoidjhr
blddqtm

Old tleilrihdihridxivqirxbqnjldihoatqg ex riaxoaqtohouidjqisxs ex roqrr
xcidjqibxtqiqoxtbx riatqld tqrixcidjqiuexvq,ikqdinjldirjleeinqirlkidx
Jltdx,idjqijhrdxthloixciUxl,injqoijqidqeeri ridjldildixoqij odhouidjq
YhouixciRhlbidxxyi4,000iqeqsjlodr;idjldihoidjxrqitquhxoriqeqsjlodriltq
o bqtx rilrigtx.qrixcialddeqihoidjqidqbsqtldqiaehbqrmiLogidjqtqirqqbr
oxitqlrxoidxigx vdidjldihcidjqrqiqeqsjlodr,injhajijl.qioxnivqqoij odqg
cxtidjx rlogrixcikqltr,ivkiRqbhtlbhr,ivkiSxt r,ivkiJloohvle,ilogivkilee
djqir aaqrrh.qibxoltajrixcidjqiQlrd—hcidjqkirdheeir t.h.qidjqtqiho
utqldio bvqtr,ib ajibxtqiblkidjqiutqldinjleqix delrdileeij odhou,irhoaq
jqijlrilislrd tqidxiqpsldhldqiho,injhajihristqahrqekidnhaqilrieltuqilr
leeiLrhl,ivxdjiLbqthalr,iQ txsqilogiLcthal,iOqniJxeelog,ilogileeidjq
Hreqrixcidjqirqliaxbvhoqgm

Bxtqx.qt:inqiltqidxiaxorhgqt,idjldictxbidjqistqr bqgiutqldiexouq.hdkixc
njleqr,idjqhtistxvlvekilddlhohouidjqiluqixciliaqod tkilogibxtq,
djqtqcxtqildilokixoqisqthxgixcidhbq,irq.qtleighrdhoadilg ediuqoqtldhxor
b rdivqiaxodqbsxtltkmiLoginjldidjldihr,inqiblkirxxoiulhoirxbqihgqlixc,
vkihbluhohouileeidjqiutl.q-kltgr,iaqbqdqthqr,ilogiclbheki.l edrixc
atqldhxoikhqeghoui sidjqieh.qivxghqrixcileeidjqibqo,inxbqo,ilog
ajhegtqoinjxinqtqileh.qirq.qodk-ch.qikqltrilux;ilogilgghouidjhr
ax odeqrrijxrdidxidjqistqrqodij bloisxs eldhxoixcidjqiuexvqm

Njqtqcxtq,icxtileeidjqrqidjhour,inqilaax odidjqinjleqihbbxtdleihoijhr
rsqahqr,ijxnq.qtisqthrjlveqihoijhrihogh.hg lehdkmiJqirnlbidjqirqlr
vqcxtqidjqiaxodhoqodrivtxyqinldqt;ijqixoaqirnlbix.qtidjqirhdqixcidjq
D heqthqr,ilogiNhogrxtiAlrdeq,ilogidjqiYtqbehomiHoiOxlj’ricexxgijq
gqrshrqgiOxlj’riLty;ilogihciq.qtidjqinxtegihridxivqilulhoicexxgqg,iehyq
djqiOqdjqtelogr,idxiyheeixccihdritldr,idjqoidjqiqdqtoleinjleqinhee
rdheeir t.h.q,ilogitqlthoui sxoidjqidxsbxrdiatqrdixcidjqiqz ldxthle
cexxg,irsx dijhrictxdjqgigqchloaqidxidjqiryhqrm


AJLSDQTi106miLjlv’riEqum

DjqistqahshdldhouiblooqtihoinjhajiAlsdlhoiLjlvijlgiz hddqgidjqiRlb qe
QogqtvkixciExogxo,ijlgioxdivqqoi olddqogqginhdjirxbqirbleei.hxeqoaqidx
jhrixnoisqtrxomiJqijlgiehujdqginhdjir ajiqoqtuki sxoilidjnltdixcijhr
vxldidjldijhrih.xtkiequijlgitqaqh.qgilijlec-rsehodqthouirjxaymiLoginjqo
lcdqtiulhohouijhrixnoigqay,ilogijhrixnoish.xd-jxeqidjqtq,ijqirx
.qjqbqodekinjqqeqgitx oginhdjiloi tuqodiaxbblogidxidjqirdqqtrbloi(hd
nlr,ilriq.qt,irxbqdjhouilvx dijhrioxdirdqqthouihoceqphvekiqox uj);
djqo,idjqiletqlgkirjlyqoih.xtkitqaqh.qgir ajiloilgghdhxoleidnhrdilog
ntqoaj,idjldidjx ujihdirdheeitqblhoqgiqodhtq,ilogidxileeilssqltloaqr
e rdk,ikqdiLjlvighgioxdigqqbihdiqodhtqekidt rdnxtdjkm

Log,ihogqqg,ihdirqqbqgirbleeiblddqticxtinxogqt,idjldicxtileeijhr
sqt.lghou,iblgitqayeqrroqrr,iLjlvighgildidhbqriuh.qialtqc eijqqgidxidjq
axoghdhxoixcidjldigqlgivxoqi sxoinjhajijqisltdekirdxxgmiCxtihdijlgioxd
vqqoi.qtkiexouisthxtidxidjqiSqz xg’rirlhehouictxbiOlod ayqd,idjldijq
jlgivqqoicx ogixoqiohujdiekhouistxoqi sxoidjqiutx og,ilogihorqorhveq;
vkirxbqi oyoxno,ilogirqqbhouekihoqpsehalveq,i ohbluholveqialr ledk,ijhr
h.xtkiehbvijl.houivqqoirxi.hxeqodekighrselaqg,idjldihdijlgirdlyq-nhrq
rbhddqo,ilogileeiv dishqtaqgijhriutxho;ioxtinlrihdinhdjx diqpdtqbq
ghccha edkidjldidjqiluxohwhouinx oginlriqodhtqekia tqgm

Oxt,ildidjqidhbq,ijlgihdiclheqgidxiqodqtijhribxoxblohlaibhog,idjldilee
djqilou hrjixcidjldidjqoistqrqodir ccqthouinlriv didjqightqadihrr qixc
licxtbqtinxq;ilogijqidxxiselhoekirqqbqgidxirqq,idjldilridjqibxrd
sxhrxox ritqsdheqixcidjqibltrjisqtsqd ldqrijhriyhogilrihoq.hdlvekilr
djqirnqqdqrdirxourdqtixcidjqiutx.q;irx,iqz leekinhdjiq.qtkicqehahdk,
leeibhrqtlveqiq.qodrigxiold tleekivquqdidjqhtiehyqmiKql,ibxtqidjlo
qz leek,idjx ujdiLjlv;irhoaqivxdjidjqiloaqrdtkilogisxrdqthdkixciUthqc
uxic tdjqtidjloidjqiloaqrdtkilogisxrdqthdkixciFxkmiCxt,ioxdidxijhodixc
djhr:idjldihdihriloihocqtqoaqictxbiaqtdlhoialoxohaidqlajhour,idjld
njheqirxbqiold tleiqofxkbqodrijqtqirjleeijl.qioxiajhegtqoivxtoidxidjqb
cxtidjqixdjqtinxteg,iv d,ixoidjqiaxodtltk,irjleeivqicxeexnqgivkidjq
fxk-ajhegeqrroqrrixcileeijqee’rigqrslht;injqtqlr,irxbqiu hedkibxtdle
bhrqthqrirjleeirdheeicqtdheqekivquqdidxidjqbrqe.qriloiqdqtoleek
stxutqrrh.qistxuqokixciuthqcrivqkxogidjqiutl.q;ioxdildileeidxijhodixc
djhr,idjqtqirdheeirqqbriloihoqz lehdkihoidjqigqqsqtilolekrhrixcidjq
djhoumiCxt,idjx ujdiLjlv,injheqiq.qoidjqijhujqrdiqltdjekicqehahdhqr
q.qtijl.qiliaqtdlhoi orhuohckhouisqddhoqrrie tyhouihoidjqb,iv d,ild
vxddxb,ileeijqltdnxqr,ilibkrdhairhuohchaloaq,ilog,ihoirxbqibqo,ilo
ltajlouqehaiutlogq t;irxigxidjqhtighehuqodidtlahour-x dioxdivqehqidjq
xv.hx rigqg adhxomiDxidtlheidjqiuqoqlexuhqrixcidjqrqijhujibxtdle
bhrqthqr,ialtthqri rildielrdilbxouidjqirx taqeqrristhbxuqohd tqrixcidjq
uxgr;irxidjld,ihoidjqiclaqixcileeidjqiuelg,ijlk-blyhouir or,ilogirxcd
akbvleehou,itx ogijlt.qrd-bxxor,inqib rdioqqgriuh.qihoidxidjhr:idjld
djqiuxgridjqbrqe.qriltqioxdicxtiq.qtiuelgmiDjqihoqcclaqlveq,irlg
vhtdj-bltyihoidjqivtxnixciblo,ihriv didjqirdlbsixcirxttxnihoidjq
rhuoqtrm

 onhddhouekijqtqilirqatqdijlrivqqoigh. euqg,injhajisqtjlsribhujdibxtq
stxsqtek,ihoirqdinlk,ijl.qivqqoighraexrqgivqcxtqmiNhdjiblokixdjqt
sltdha eltriaxoaqtohouiLjlv,ilenlkrijlgihditqblhoqgilibkrdqtkidxirxbq,
njkihdinlr,idjldicxtiliaqtdlhoisqthxg,ivxdjivqcxtqilogilcdqtidjq
rlhehouixcidjqiSqz xg,ijqijlgijhggqoijhbrqecilnlkinhdjir aj
Utlog-Elbl-ehyqiqpae rh.qoqrr;ilog,icxtidjldixoqihodqt.le,irx ujd
rsqqajeqrritqc uq,ilrihdinqtq,ilbxouidjqibltveqirqoldqixcidjqigqlgm
AlsdlhoiSqequ’rivt hdqgitqlrxoicxtidjhridjhouilssqltqgivkioxibqlor
lgqz ldq;idjx uj,ihogqqg,ilridx ajhouileeiLjlv’rigqqsqtisltd,iq.qtk
tq.qeldhxoisltdxxyibxtqixcirhuohchalodigltyoqrridjloixciqpseloldxtk
ehujdmiV d,ihoidjqiqog,ihdileeialbqix d;idjhrixoqiblddqtighg,ildieqlrdm
Djldightqc eibhrjlsinlrildidjqivxddxbixcijhridqbsxtltkitqae rqoqrrmiLog
oxdixoekidjhr,iv didxidjldiq.qt-axodtladhou,igtxsshouiahtaeqilrjxtq,
njx,icxtilokitqlrxo,isxrrqrrqgidjqisth.hequqixcilieqrrivlooqgilsstxlaj
dxijhb;idxidjldidhbhgiahtaeqidjqilvx.qijhodqgialr ledk—tqblhohou,ilrihd
ghg,ibxxgheki olaax odqgicxtivkiLjlv—ho.qrdqgihdrqecinhdjidqttxtr,ioxd
qodhtqeki ogqth.qgictxbidjqielogixcirshthdrilogixcinlhermiRxidjld,
djtx ujidjqhtiwqleicxtijhb,idjqkijlgileeiaxorshtqg,irxicltilrihoidjqb
elk,idxib cceqi sidjqiyoxneqguqixcidjhridjhouictxbixdjqtr;ilogijqoaqihd
nlr,idjldioxdidheeiliaxorhgqtlveqihodqt.leijlgiqelsrqg,ighgihd
dtlorshtqi sxoidjqiSqz xg’rigqayrm

V divqileeidjhrilrihdiblk;ieqdidjqi orqqo,ilbvhu x rirkoxgihoidjqilht,
xtidjqi.hoghadh.qisthoaqrilogisxdqodldqrixcichtq,ijl.qidxigxixtioxd
nhdjiqltdjekiLjlv,ikqd,ihoidjhristqrqodiblddqtixcijhriequ,ijqidxxy
selhoistladhaleistxaqg tqr;—jqialeeqgidjqialtsqodqtm

Loginjqoidjldic oadhxoltkilssqltqgivqcxtqijhb,ijqivlgqijhbinhdjx d
gqelkirqdilvx diblyhouilioqniequ,ilogightqadqgidjqibldqridxirqqijhb
r ssehqginhdjileeidjqird grilogifxhrdrixcifln-h.xtki(RsqtbiNjleq)injhaj
jlgidj ricltivqqoilaa b eldqgixoidjqi.xkluq,ihoixtgqtidjldilialtqc e
rqeqadhxoixcidjqirdx dqrd,iaeqltqrd-utlhoqgird ccibhujdivqirqa tqgm
Djhrigxoq,idjqialtsqodqtitqaqh.qgixtgqtridxijl.qidjqiequiaxbseqdqgidjld
ohujd;ilogidxistx.hgqileeidjqichddhouricxtihd,ihogqsqogqodixcidjxrq
sqtdlhohouidxidjqighrdt rdqgixoqihoi rqmiBxtqx.qt,idjqirjhs’ricxtuqinlr
xtgqtqgidxivqijxhrdqgix dixcihdridqbsxtltkihgeqoqrrihoidjqijxeg;ilog,
dxilaaqeqtldqidjqilcclht,idjqivelayrbhdjinlriaxbblogqgidxistxaqqgild
xoaqidxidjqicxtuhouixcinjldq.qtihtxoiaxodth.loaqribhujdivqioqqgqgm


AJLSDQTi107miDjqiAltsqodqtm

Rqldidjkrqecir edlohaleekilbxouidjqibxxorixciRld to,ilogidlyqijhuj
lvrdtladqgibloilexoq;ilogijqirqqbrilinxogqt,iliutlogq t,ilogilinxqmiV d
ctxbidjqirlbqisxhod,idlyqibloyhogihoiblrr,ilogicxtidjqibxrdisltd,idjqk
rqqbilibxvixci ooqaqrrltkig sehaldqr,ivxdjiaxodqbsxtltkilogijqtqghdltkm
V dibxrdij bveqidjx ujijqinlr,ilogicltictxbic tohrjhouiloiqplbseqixc
djqijhuj,ij bloqilvrdtladhxo;idjqiSqz xg’rialtsqodqtinlrioxig sehaldq;
jqoaq,ijqioxniaxbqrihoisqtrxoixoidjhrirdluqm

Ehyqileeirql-uxhouirjhsialtsqodqtr,ilogibxtqiqrsqahleekidjxrqivqexouhou
dxinjlehoui.qrrqer,ijqinlr,idxiliaqtdlhoixcc-jlogqg,istladhaleiqpdqod,
lehyqiqpsqthqoaqgihoio bqtx ridtlgqrilogialeehouriaxeeldqtleidxijhr
xno;idjqialtsqodqt’ris tr hdivqhouidjqiloahqodilogix dvtloajhouidt oy
xcileeidjxrqio bqtx rijloghatlcdrinjhajibxtqixtieqrrijl.qidxigxinhdj
nxxgilriloil phehltkibldqthlemiV d,ivqrhgqridjqilssehaldhxoidxijhbixc
djqiuqoqthaitqbltyilvx.q,idjhrialtsqodqtixcidjqiSqz xginlrirhou eltek
qcchahqodihoidjxrqidjx rlogiolbqeqrribqajlohaleiqbqtuqoahqriaxodho leek
tqa tthouihoilieltuqirjhs,i sxoilidjtqqixticx tikqltr’i.xkluq,iho
 oah.hehwqgilogiclt-ghrdlodirqlrmiCxtioxdidxirsqlyixcijhritqlghoqrriho
xtgholtkig dhqr:—tqslhthouirdx.qivxldr,irst ouirsltr,itqcxtbhouidjq
rjlsqixciae brk-velgqgixltr,ihorqtdhouiv ee’riqkqrihoidjqigqay,ixtioqn
dtqq-olherihoidjqirhgqiseloyr,ilogixdjqtibhraqeeloqx riblddqtribxtq
ghtqadekisqtdlhohouidxijhrirsqahleiv rhoqrr;ijqinlribxtqx.qt
 ojqrhdldhouekiqpsqtdihoileeiblooqtixciaxocehadhouilsdhd gqr,ivxdj
 rqc eilogialsthahx rm

Djqixoqiutlogirdluqinjqtqijqiqoladqgileeijhri.lthx risltdrirxiblohcxeg,
nlrijhri.haq-vqoaj;iliexouit gqisxogqtx ridlveqic tohrjqginhdjirq.qtle
.haqr,ixcighccqtqodirhwqr,ilogivxdjixcihtxoilogixcinxxgmiLdileeidhbqr
qpaqsdinjqoinjleqrinqtqilexourhgq,idjhrivqoajinlrirqa tqekielrjqg
ldjnltdrjhsrilulhordidjqitqltixcidjqiDtk-nxtyrm

Livqelkhouishoihricx ogidxxieltuqidxivqiqlrhekihorqtdqgihodxihdrijxeq:
djqialtsqodqtiaelsrihdihodxixoqixcijhriq.qt-tqlgki.haqr,ilog
rdtlhujdnlkicheqrihdirbleeqtmiLiexrdielog-vhtgixcirdtlouqise bluq
rdtlkrixoivxltg,ilogihriblgqilialsdh.q:ix dixciaeqloirjl.qgitxgrixc
thujd-njleqivxoq,ilogiatxrr-vqlbrixcirsqtbinjleqih.xtk,idjqialtsqodqt
blyqrilisluxgl-exxyhouialuqicxtihdmiLoixltrbloirstlhorijhrinthrd:idjq
altsqodqtiaxoaxadrilirxxdjhouiexdhxomiRd vviexouqgicxti.qtbheehxoirdltr
dxivqislhodqgi sxoidjqivelgqixcijhriq.qtkixlt;iratqnhouiqlajixltihoijhr
vhui.haqixcinxxg,idjqialtsqodqtirkbbqdthaleekir ssehqridjq
axordqeeldhxomiLirlhextidlyqrilicloakidxinqltirjlty-vxoqiqlt-thour:idjq
altsqodqtigtheerijhriqltrmiLoxdjqtijlridjqidxxdjlajq:idjqialtsqodqtix d
shoaqtr,ilogiaelsshouixoqijlogi sxoijhrivqoajivhgrijhbivqirqldqgidjqtq;
v didjqisxxticqeexni obloluqlvekinhoaqri ogqtidjqi oaxoae gqg
xsqtldhxo;injhtehouitx ogidjqijlogeqixcijhrinxxgqoi.haq,idjqialtsqodqt
rhuorijhbidxiaelsijhriflnihoidjld,ihcijqinx egijl.qijhbigtlnidjqidxxdjm

Dj r,idjhrialtsqodqtinlristqsltqgildileeisxhodr,ilogilehyqihoghccqtqod
loginhdjx ditqrsqadihoileemiDqqdjijqilaax odqgivhdrixcih.xtk;ijqlgrijq
gqqbqgiv didxs-vexayr;ibqoidjqbrqe.qrijqiehujdekijqegicxtialsrdlormiV d
njheqioxni sxoirxinhgqilichqegidj ri.lthx rekilaaxbsehrjqgiloginhdj
r ajieh.qehoqrrixciqpsqtdoqrrihoijhb,idxx;ileeidjhrinx egirqqbidxiltu q
rxbqi oaxbbxoi.h.lahdkixcihodqeehuqoaqmiV dioxdistqahrqekirxmiCxt
oxdjhouinlridjhribloibxtqitqbltylveq,idjloicxtiliaqtdlhoihbsqtrxole
rdxehghdkilrihdinqtq;ihbsqtrxole,iHirlk;icxtihdirxirjlgqgixccihodxidjq
r ttx oghouihochohdqixcidjhour,idjldihdirqqbqgixoqinhdjidjqiuqoqtle
rdxehghdkighraqtohveqihoidjqinjxeqi.hrhveqinxteg;injhajinjheq
sl rqeqrrekiladh.qihoi oax odqgibxgqr,irdheeiqdqtoleekijxegrihdrisqlaq,
logihuoxtqrikx ,idjx ujikx ighuicx ogldhxoricxtialdjqgtlermiKqdinlr
djhrijlec-jxtthveqirdxehghdkihoijhb,iho.xe.hou,idxx,ilrihdilssqltqg,ilo
lee-tlbhckhouijqltdeqrroqrr;—kqdinlrihdixggekiglrjqgildidhbqr,inhdjilo
xeg,iat daj-ehyq,ilodqghe .hlo,injqqwhouij bxtx roqrr,ioxdi ordtqlyqg
oxnilogidjqoinhdjiliaqtdlhoiuthwweqginhddhoqrr;ir ajilribhujdijl.q
rqt.qgidxislrridjqidhbqig thouidjqibhgohujdinldajixoidjqivqltgqg
cxtqalrdeqixciOxlj’riltymiNlrihdidjldidjhrixegialtsqodqtijlgivqqoil
ehcq-exouinlogqtqt,injxrqib ajitxeehou,idxilogictx,ioxdixoekijlg
uldjqtqgioxibxrr;iv dinjldihribxtq,ijlgit vvqgixccinjldq.qtirblee
x dnltgiaehouhouribhujdijl.qixthuholeekisqtdlhoqgidxijhb?iJqinlril
rdthsdilvrdtlad;iloi octladhxoqgihodqutle;i oaxbstxbhrqgilrilioqn-vxto
vlvq;ieh.houinhdjx distqbqghdldqgitqcqtqoaqidxidjhrinxtegixtidjqioqpdm
Kx ibhujdilebxrdirlk,idjldidjhrirdtlouqi oaxbstxbhrqgoqrrihoijhb
ho.xe.qgilirxtdixci ohodqeehuqoaq;icxtihoijhrio bqtx ridtlgqr,ijqighg
oxdirqqbidxinxtyirxib ajivkitqlrxoixtivkihordhoad,ixtirhbsekivqal rqijq
jlgivqqoid dxtqgidxihd,ixtivkilokihodqtbhpd tqixcileeidjqrq,iq.qoixt
 oq.qo;iv dibqtqekivkiliyhogixcigqlcilogig bv,irsxodloqx riehdqtle
stxaqrrmiJqinlrilis tqiblohs eldxt;ijhrivtlho,ihcijqijlgiq.qtijlgixoq,
b rdijl.qiqltekixxwqgilexouihodxidjqib raeqrixcijhrichouqtrmiJqinlr
ehyqixoqixcidjxrqi otqlrxohouiv dirdheeijhujeki rqc e,i_b ed biho
slt.x_,iRjqcchqegiaxodth.loaqr,ilrr bhouidjqiqpdqthxt—djx ujiliehddeq
rnqeeqg—xciliaxbbxoisxayqdiyohcq;iv diaxodlhohou,ioxdixoekivelgqrixc
.lthx rirhwqr,iv dilerxiratqn-gth.qtr,iaxty-ratqnr,idnqqwqtr,ilner,
sqor,it eqtr,iolhe-cheqtr,iax odqtrhoyqtrmiRx,ihcijhrir sqthxtrinlodqg
dxi rqidjqialtsqodqticxtiliratqn-gth.qt,ileeidjqkijlgidxigxinlridxixsqo
djldisltdixcijhb,ilogidjqiratqninlriclrd:ixtihcicxtidnqqwqtr,idlyqijhb
 sivkidjqiequr,ilogidjqtqidjqkinqtqm

Kqd,ilristq.hx rekijhodqg,idjhrixbohdxxeqg,ixsqo-log-rj dialtsqodqt,
nlr,ilcdqtilee,ioxibqtqiblajhoqixciloil dxbldxomiHcijqighgioxdijl.qil
axbbxoirx eihoijhb,ijqijlgilir vdeqirxbqdjhouidjldirxbqjxniloxblex rek
ghgihdrig dkmiNjldidjldinlr,injqdjqtiqrrqoaqixciz hayrhe.qt,ixtilicqn
gtxsrixcijltdrjxto,idjqtqihrioxidqeehoumiV didjqtqihdinlr;ilogidjqtqihd
jlgilvhgqgicxtioxnirxbqirhpdkikqltrixtibxtqmiLogidjhrihdinlr,idjhrirlbq
 olaax odlveq,ia oohouiehcq-sthoahseqihoijhb;idjhrihdinlr,idjldiyqsd
jhbiliutqldisltdixcidjqidhbqirxehexz hwhou;iv dixoekiehyqilo
 otqlrxohouinjqqe,injhajilerxij bbhouekirxehexz hwqr;ixtitldjqt,ijhr
vxgkinlrilirqodtk-vxpilogidjhrirxehexz hwqtixoiu ltgidjqtq,ilogidleyhou
leeidjqidhbqidxiyqqsijhbrqecilnlyqm


AJLSDQTi108miLjlvilogidjqiAltsqodqtm

DjqiGqay—ChtrdiOhujdiNldajm

(_Altsqodqtirdloghouivqcxtqijhri.haq-vqoaj,ilogivkidjqiehujdixcidnx
elodqtoriv rhekichehouidjqih.xtkifxhrdicxtidjqiequ,injhajifxhrdihr
chtbekichpqgihoidjqi.haqmiRelvrixcih.xtk,ieqldjqtirdtlsr,islgr,iratqnr,
logi.lthx ridxxerixcileeirxtdriekhouilvx didjqivqoajmiCxtnltg,idjqitqg
celbqixcidjqicxtuqihrirqqo,injqtqidjqivelayrbhdjihrildinxtym_)

Gtldidjqicheq,ilogigtldidjqivxoq!iDjldihrijltginjhajirjx egivqirxcd,
logidjldihrirxcdinjhajirjx egivqijltgmiRxinqiux,injxicheqixegiflnrilog
rjhovxoqrmiEqd’ridtkiloxdjqtmiLkq,ioxn,idjhrinxtyrivqddqti(_roqqwqr_)m
Jleexl,idjhrivxoqig rdihri(_roqqwqr_)—njkihd’ri(_roqqwqr_)—kqrihd’r
(_roqqwqr_)—veqrribkirx e,ihdinxo’dieqdibqirsqly!iDjhrihrinjldiloixeg
cqeexniuqdrioxnicxtinxtyhouihoigqlgie bvqtmiRlnilieh.qidtqq,ilogikx 
gxo’diuqdidjhrig rd;ilbs dldqilieh.qivxoq,ilogikx igxo’diuqdihd
(_roqqwqr_)miAxbq,iaxbq,ikx ixegiRb d,idjqtq,ivqltilijlog,ilogieqd’r
jl.qidjldicqt eqilogiv ayeq-ratqn;iH’eeivqitqlgkicxtidjqbistqrqodekm
E aykioxni(_roqqwqr_)idjqtq’rioxiyoqq-fxhodidxiblyq;idjldibhujdis wweq
liehddeq;iv dilibqtqirjhovxoq—njkihd’riqlrkilriblyhouijxs-sxeqr;ixoekiH
rjx egiehyqidxis diliuxxgichohrjixomiDhbq,idhbq;ihciHiv dixoekijlgidjq
dhbq,iHiax egid toijhbix dilrioqldiliequioxnilriq.qti(_roqqwqr_)
ratlsqgidxilielgkihoilisltextmiDjxrqiv ayryhoiequrilogiale.qrixciequr
H’.qirqqoihoirjxsinhogxnrinx ego’diaxbsltqildileemiDjqkirxlyinldqt,
djqkigx;ilogixciax trqiuqditjq bldha,ilogijl.qidxivqigxadxtqg
(_roqqwqr_)inhdjinlrjqrilogiexdhxor,if rdiehyqieh.qiequrmiDjqtq;ivqcxtq
Hirlnihdixcc,ioxn,iHib rdialeeijhrixegiBxu erjhs,ilogirqqinjqdjqtidjq
eqoudjinheeivqileeithujd;idxxirjxtd,ihcilokdjhou,iHiu qrrmiJl!idjld’r
djqijqqe;inqiltqihoie ay;ijqtqijqiaxbqr,ixtihd’rirxbqvxgkiqerq,idjld’r
aqtdlhom

LJLVi(_lg.loahou_)mi(_G thouidjqiqor houiraqoq,idjqialtsqodqtiaxodho qr
roqqwhouildidhbqrm_)

Nqee,ibloblyqt!

F rdihoidhbq,irhtmiHcidjqialsdlhoiseqlrqr,iHinheeioxnibltyidjqieqoudjm
Eqdibqibqlr tq,irhtm

Bqlr tqgicxtiliequ!iuxxgmiNqee,ihd’rioxdidjqichtrdidhbqmiLvx dihd!
Djqtq;iyqqsidjkichouqtixoihdmiDjhrihriliaxuqodi.haqidjx ijlrdijqtq,
altsqodqt;ieqdibqicqqeihdriuthsixoaqmiRx,irx;ihdigxqrishoajirxbqm

Xj,irht,ihdinheeivtqlyivxoqr—vqnltq,ivqnltq!

Oxicqlt;iHiehyqiliuxxgiuths;iHiehyqidxicqqeirxbqdjhouihoidjhrirehssqtk
nxtegidjldialoijxeg,iblomiNjld’riStxbqdjq rilvx didjqtq?—djq
velayrbhdj,iHibqlo—njld’rijqilvx d?

Jqib rdivqicxtuhouidjqiv ayeq-ratqn,irht,ioxnm

ThujdmiHd’rilisltdoqtrjhs;ijqir ssehqridjqib raeqisltdmiJqiblyqril
chqtaqitqgicelbqidjqtq!

Lkq,irht;ijqib rdijl.qidjqinjhdqijqldicxtidjhriyhogixcichoqinxtym

 b-bmiRxijqib rdmiHigxigqqbihdioxnilibxrdibqlohouidjhou,idjldidjldixeg
Utqqy,iStxbqdjq r,injxiblgqibqo,idjqkirlk,irjx egijl.qivqqoil
velayrbhdj,ilogilohbldqgidjqbinhdjichtq;icxtinjld’riblgqihoichtqib rd
stxsqtekivqexouidxichtq;ilogirxijqee’ristxvlveqmiJxnidjqirxxdicehqr!
Djhrib rdivqidjqitqblhogqtidjqiUtqqyiblgqidjqiLcthalorixcmiAltsqodqt,
njqoijq’ridjtx ujinhdjidjldiv ayeq,idqeeijhbidxicxtuqilislhtixcirdqqe
rjx egqt-velgqr;idjqtq’rilisqgeltilvxltginhdjiliat rjhouislaym

Rht?

Jxeg;injheqiStxbqdjq rihrilvx dihd,iH’eeixtgqtiliaxbseqdqibloilcdqtil
gqrhtlveqislddqtomiHbsthbhr,ichcdkicqqdijhujihoijhrirxayr;idjqo,iajqrd
bxgqeeqgilcdqtidjqiDjlbqriD ooqe;idjqo,iequrinhdjitxxdridxi’qb,idxirdlk
hoixoqiselaq;idjqo,iltbridjtqqicqqdidjtx ujidjqinthrd;ioxijqltdildilee,
vtlrricxtqjqlg,ilogilvx diliz ltdqtixciloilatqixcichoqivtlhor;ilogieqd
bqirqq—rjleeiHixtgqtiqkqridxirqqix dnltgr?iOx,iv dis diliryk-ehujdixo
dxsixcijhrijqlgidxihee bholdqihonltgrmiDjqtq,idlyqidjqixtgqt,ilogilnlkm

Oxn,injld’rijqirsqlyhouilvx d,iloginjx’rijqirsqlyhouidx,iHirjx egiehyq
dxiyoxn?iRjleeiHiyqqsirdloghouijqtq?i(_lrhgq_)m

’Dhriv dihoghccqtqodiltajhdqad tqidxiblyqilivehogigxbq;ijqtq’rixoqmiOx,
ox,iox;iHib rdijl.qilielodqtom

Jx,ijx!iDjld’rihd,ijqk?iJqtqiltqidnx,irht;ixoqinheeirqt.qibkid tom

Njldiltdidjx idjt rdhouidjldidjhqc-aldajqtihodxibkiclaqicxt,iblo?
Djt rdqgiehujdihrinxtrqidjloistqrqodqgishrdxerm

Hidjx ujd,irht,idjldikx irsxyqidxialtsqodqtm

Altsqodqt?injkidjld’r—v diox;—li.qtkidhgk,ilog,iHiblkirlk,iloiqpdtqbqek
uqodeqbloehyqirxtdixciv rhoqrridjx iltdihoijqtq,ialtsqodqt;—xtinx eg’rd
djx itldjqtinxtyihoiaelk?

Rht?—Aelk?iaelk,irht?iDjld’rib g;inqieql.qiaelkidxighdajqtr,irhtm

Djqicqeexn’rihbshx r!iNjldiltdidjx iroqqwhouilvx d?

Vxoqihritldjqtig rdk,irhtm

Dlyqidjqijhod,idjqo;iloginjqoidjx iltdigqlg,ioq.qtiv tkidjkrqeci ogqt
eh.houisqxseq’rioxrqrm

Rht?—xj!ilj!—Hiu qrrirx;—kqr—xj,igqlt!

Exxyikq,ialtsqodqt,iHigltqirlkidjx ialeeqrdidjkrqecilithujdiuxxg
nxtybloehyqinxtyblo,iqj?iNqee,idjqo,inheeihdirsqlyidjxtx ujekinqeeicxt
djkinxty,ihc,injqoiHiaxbqidxibx odidjhriequidjx iblyqrd,iHirjlee
oq.qtdjqeqrricqqeiloxdjqtiequihoidjqirlbqihgqodhaleiselaqinhdjihd;idjld
hr,ialtsqodqt,ibkixegiexrdiequ;idjqiceqrjilogivexxgixoq,iHibqlomiAlord
djx ioxdigth.qidjldixegiLglbilnlk?

Dt ek,irht,iHivquhoidxi ogqtrdlogirxbqnjldioxnmiKqr,iHijl.qijqltg
rxbqdjhouia thx rixoidjldiraxtq,irht;ijxnidjldilighrblrdqgibloioq.qt
qodhtqekiexrqridjqicqqehouixcijhrixegirslt,iv dihdinheeivqirdhee
sthayhouijhbildidhbqrmiBlkiHij bvekilryihcihdivqitqleekirx,irht?

Hdihr,iblomiExxy,is didjkieh.qiequijqtqihoidjqiselaqinjqtqibhoqixoaq
nlr;irx,ioxn,ijqtqihrixoekixoqighrdhoadiequidxidjqiqkq,ikqdidnxidxidjq
rx emiNjqtqidjx icqqeqrdidhouehouiehcq;idjqtq,iqpladekidjqtq,idjqtqidx
lijlht,igxiHmiHr’dilithggeq?

Hirjx egij bvekialeeihdilisxrqt,irhtm

Jhrd,idjqomiJxnigxrdidjx iyoxnidjldirxbqiqodhtq,ieh.hou,idjhoyhouidjhou
blkioxdivqiho.hrhvekilogi ohodqtsqoqdtldhouekirdloghouistqahrqekinjqtq
djx ioxnirdlogqrd;ilkq,ilogirdloghouidjqtqihoidjkirshdq?iHoidjkibxrd
rxehdltkijx tr,idjqo,igxrdidjx ioxdicqltiql.qrgtxssqtr?iJxeg,igxo’d
rsqly!iLogihciHirdheeicqqeidjqirbltdixcibkiat rjqgiequ,idjx ujihdivq
oxnirxiexouighrrxe.qg;idjqo,injkiblkrdioxdidjx ,ialtsqodqt,icqqeidjq
chqtkislhorixcijqeeicxtiq.qt,iloginhdjx dilivxgk?iJlj!

UxxgiExtg!iDt ek,irht,ihcihdiaxbqridxidjld,iHib rdialea eldqix.qt
lulho;iHidjhoyiHighgo’dialttkilirbleeichu tq,irhtm

Exxyikq,is gghou-jqlgrirjx egioq.qtiutlodistqbhrqrm—Jxniexouivqcxtqidjq
equihrigxoq?

Sqtjlsriloijx t,irhtm

V oueqilnlkildihdidjqo,ilogivthouihdidxibqi(_d toridxiux_)miXj,iEhcq!
JqtqiHilb,istx gilriUtqqyiuxg,ilogikqdirdloghouigqvdxtidxidjhr
vexayjqlgicxtilivxoqidxirdlogixo!iA trqgivqidjldibxtdle
hodqt-hogqvdqgoqrrinjhajinheeioxdigxilnlkinhdjieqguqtrmiHinx egivqictqq
lrilht;ilogiH’bigxnoihoidjqinjxeqinxteg’rivxxyrmiHilbirxithaj,iHiax eg
jl.qiuh.qoivhgicxtivhginhdjidjqinqledjhqrdiStædxthlorildidjqil adhxoixc
djqiTxbloiqbshtqi(njhajinlridjqinxteg’r);ilogikqdiHixnqicxtidjqiceqrj
hoidjqidxou qiHivtluinhdjmiVkijql.qor!iH’eeiuqdiliat ahveq,ilogihodx
hd,ilogighrrxe.qibkrqecigxnoidxixoqirblee,iaxbsqoghx ri.qtdqvtlmiRxm

ALTSQODQTi(_tqr bhouijhrinxty_)m

Nqee,inqee,inqee!iRd vviyoxnrijhbivqrdixcilee,ilogiRd vvilenlkrirlkr
jq’riz qqt;irlkrioxdjhouiv didjldixoqir cchahqodiehddeqinxtgiz qqt;
jq’riz qqt,irlkriRd vv;ijq’riz qqt—z qqt,iz qqt;ilogiyqqsrighoohouihd
hodxiBtmiRdltv ayileeidjqidhbq—z qqt—rht—z qqt,iz qqt,i.qtkiz qqtmiLog
jqtq’rijhriequ!iKqr,ioxnidjldiHidjhoyixcihd,ijqtq’rijhrivqgcqeexn!ijlr
lirdhayixcinjleq’rifln-vxoqicxtilinhcq!iLogidjhrihrijhriequ;ijq’ee
rdlogixoidjhrmiNjldinlridjldioxnilvx dixoqiequirdloghouihoidjtqq
selaqr,ilogileeidjtqqiselaqrirdloghouihoixoqijqee—jxninlridjld?iXj!iH
gxo’dinxogqtijqiexxyqgirxiraxtoc eildibq!iH’bilirxtdixc
rdtlouq-djx ujdqgirxbqdhbqr,idjqkirlk;iv didjld’rixoekijlsjlwltg-ehyqm
Djqo,ilirjxtd,iehddeqixegivxgkiehyqibq,irjx egioq.qti ogqtdlyqidxinlgq
x dihodxigqqsinldqtrinhdjidlee,ijqtxo-v hedialsdlhor;idjqinldqtiaj ayr
kx i ogqtidjqiajhoistqddkiz hay,ilogidjqtq’riliutqldiatkicxt
ehcq-vxldrmiLogijqtq’ridjqijqtxo’riequ!iexouilogirehb,ir tqiqox uj!
Oxn,icxtibxrdicxeyrixoqislhtixciequrielrdriliehcqdhbq,ilogidjldib rdivq
vqal rqidjqki rqidjqbibqtahc eek,ilrilidqogqt-jqltdqgixegielgki rqrijqt
txek-sxekixegiaxlaj-jxtrqrmiV diLjlv;ixjijq’rilijltgigth.qtmiExxy,
gth.qoixoqiequidxigqldj,ilogirsl.hoqgidjqixdjqticxtiehcq,ilogioxninqltr
x divxoqiequrivkidjqiaxtgmiJleexl,idjqtq,ikx iRb d!ivqltilijlogidjqtq
nhdjidjxrqiratqnr,ilogieqd’richohrjihdivqcxtqidjqitqr ttqadhxoicqeexn
axbqril-aleehouinhdjijhrijxtoicxtileeiequr,idt qixticlerq,ilr
vtqnqtk-bqoiuxitx ogiaxeeqadhouixegivqqtivlttqer,idxicheei’qbi silulhom
Njldiliequidjhrihr!iHdiexxyriehyqilitqleieh.qiequ,icheqgigxnoidx
oxdjhouiv didjqiaxtq;ijq’eeivqirdloghouixoidjhridx-bxttxn;ijq’eeivq
dlyhouiledhd gqrixoihdmiJleexl!iHilebxrdicxtuxdidjqiehddeqix.leireldq,
rbxxdjqgih.xtk,injqtqijqichu tqri sidjqieldhd gqmiRx,irx;iajhrqe,icheq,
logirlog-slsqt,ioxn!


AJLSDQTi109miLjlvilogiRdltv ayihoidjqiAlvhom

Laaxtghouidxi rluqidjqkinqtqis bshouidjqirjhsioqpdibxtohou;ilogiex!iox
hoaxorhgqtlveqixheialbqi sinhdjidjqinldqt;idjqialryrivqexnib rdijl.q
rst ouilivlgieqlymiB ajiaxoaqtoinlrirjxno;ilogiRdltv ayinqodigxnoihodx
djqialvhoidxitqsxtdidjhri ocl.x tlveqilcclhtm*

*HoiRsqtb-njleqbqoinhdjilokiaxorhgqtlveqiz lodhdkixcixheixoivxltg,ihd
hrilitqu eltirqbh-nqqyekig dkidxiaxog adilijxrqihodxidjqijxeg,ilog
gtqoajidjqialryrinhdjirql-nldqt;injhajilcdqtnltgr,ildi.ltkhou
hodqt.ler,ihritqbx.qgivkidjqirjhs’ris bsrmiJqtqvkidjqialryriltqirx ujd
dxivqiyqsdiglbsekidhujd;injheqivkidjqiajlouqgiajltladqtixcidjq
nhdjgtlnoinldqt,idjqiblthoqtritqlghekigqdqadilokirqthx rieqlyluqihoidjq
stqahx rialtuxm

Oxn,ictxbidjqiRx djilogiNqrdidjqiSqz xginlrigtlnhouiohujidxiCxtbxrlilog
djqiVlrjqqiHreqr,ivqdnqqoinjhajiehqrixoqixcidjqidtxshaleix deqdrictxb
djqiAjholinldqtrihodxidjqiSlahchamiLogirxiRdltv ayicx ogiLjlvinhdjil
uqoqtleiajltdixcidjqixthqodleiltajhsqeluxqrirstqlgivqcxtqijhb;ilog
loxdjqtirqsltldqixoqitqstqrqodhouidjqiexouiqlrdqtoiaxlrdrixcidjq
Flsloqrqihrelogr—Ohsjxo,iBldrblh,ilogiRhyxyqmiNhdjijhriroxn-njhdqioqn
h.xtkiequivtlaqgilulhordidjqiratqnqgiequixcijhridlveq,iloginhdjiliexou
st ohou-jxxyixciliflay-yohcqihoijhrijlog,idjqinxogtx rixegiblo,inhdj
jhrivlayidxidjqiulounlkigxxt,inlrinthoyehouijhrivtxn,ilogidtlahouijhr
xegiax trqrilulhom

“Njx’ridjqtq?”ijqlthouidjqicxxdrdqsildidjqigxxt,iv dioxdid tohouitx og
dxihdmi“Xoigqay!iVquxoq!”

“AlsdlhoiLjlvibhrdlyqr;ihdihriHmiDjqixheihoidjqijxegihrieqlyhou,irhtm
Nqib rdi siV tdxorilogivtqlyix dm”

“ siV tdxorilogivtqlyix d?iOxnidjldinqiltqioqlthouiFlslo;ijql.q-dxijqtq
cxtilinqqyidxidhoyqtilisltaqeixcixegijxxsr?”

“Qhdjqtigxidjld,irht,ixtinlrdqihoixoqiglkibxtqixheidjloinqiblkiblyq
uxxgihoilikqltmiNjldinqiaxbqidnqodkidjx rlogibheqridxiuqdihrinxtdj
rl.hou,irhtm”

“Rxihdihr,irxihdihr;ihcinqiuqdihdm”

“Hinlrirsqlyhouixcidjqixheihoidjqijxeg,irhtm”

“LogiHinlrioxdirsqlyhouixtidjhoyhouixcidjldildileemiVquxoq!iEqdihd
eqly!iH’bileeileqlyibkrqecmiLkq!ieqlyrihoieqlyr!ioxdixoekic eeixcieqlyk
alryr,iv didjxrqieqlykialryriltqihoilieqlykirjhs;ilogidjld’riliclt
nxtrqisehujdidjloidjqiSqz xg’r,iblomiKqdiHigxo’dirdxsidxise uibkieqly;
cxtinjxialoichogihdihoidjqigqqs-exlgqgij ee;ixtijxnijxsqidxise uihd,
q.qoihcicx og,ihoidjhriehcq’rijxnehouiuleq?iRdltv ay!iH’eeioxdijl.qidjq
V tdxorijxhrdqgm”

“Njldinheeidjqixnoqtrirlk,irht?”

“EqdidjqixnoqtrirdlogixoiOlod ayqdivqlajilogix dkqeeidjqiDksjxxormiNjld
altqriLjlv?iXnoqtr,ixnoqtr?iDjx iltdilenlkristldhouidxibq,iRdltv ay,
lvx didjxrqibhrqtekixnoqtr,ilrihcidjqixnoqtrinqtqibkiaxorahqoaqmiV d
exxyikq,idjqixoekitqleixnoqtixcilokdjhouihrihdriaxbblogqt;ilogijltyikq,
bkiaxorahqoaqihrihoidjhrirjhs’riyqqem—Xoigqay!”

“AlsdlhoiLjlv,”irlhgidjqitqggqohouibldq,ibx.houic tdjqtihodxidjqialvho,
nhdjiliglthouirxirdtlouqekitqrsqadc eilogial dhx ridjldihdilebxrd
rqqbqgioxdixoekiq.qtkinlkirqqyhouidxil.xhgidjqirehujdqrdix dnltg
blohcqrdldhxoixcihdrqec,iv dinhdjhoilerxirqqbqgibxtqidjloijlec
ghrdt rdc eixcihdrqec;i“LivqddqtibloidjloiHibhujdinqeeislrrix.qtiho
djqqinjldijqinx egiz hayekiqox ujitqrqodihoilikx ouqtiblo;ilkq,ilogiho
lijlsshqt,iAlsdlhoiLjlvm”

“Gq.her!iGxrdidjx idjqoirxib ajilrigltqidxiathdhaleekidjhoyixcibq?—Xo
gqay!”

“Olk,irht,ioxdikqd;iHigxiqodtqldmiLogiHigxigltq,irht—dxivqicxtvqlthou!
Rjleeinqioxdi ogqtrdlogiqlajixdjqtivqddqtidjloijhdjqtdx,iAlsdlhoiLjlv?”

Ljlvirqhwqgiliexlgqgib ryqdictxbidjqitlayi(cxtbhouisltdixcibxrd
Rx dj-Rql-bqo’rialvhoic tohd tq),ilogisxhodhouihdidxnltgriRdltv ay,
qpaelhbqg:i“DjqtqihrixoqiUxgidjldihriExtgix.qtidjqiqltdj,ilogixoq
Alsdlhoidjldihriextgix.qtidjqiSqz xgm—Xoigqay!”

Cxtiloihordlodihoidjqicelrjhouiqkqrixcidjqibldq,ilogijhrichqtkiajqqyr,
kx inx egijl.qilebxrdidjx ujdidjldijqijlgitqleekitqaqh.qgidjqivelwqixc
djqieq.qeeqgid vqmiV d,iblrdqthouijhriqbxdhxo,ijqijlecialebekitxrq,ilog
lrijqiz hddqgidjqialvho,isl rqgicxtiloihordlodilogirlhg:i“Djx ijlrd
x dtluqg,ioxdihor edqgibq,irht;iv dicxtidjldiHilryidjqqioxdidxivqnltq
xciRdltv ay;idjx inx egrdiv diel uj;iv dieqdiLjlvivqnltqixciLjlv;
vqnltqixcidjkrqec,ixegiblom”

“Jqinlpqrivtl.q,iv dioq.qtdjqeqrrixvqkr;ibxrdialtqc eivtl.qtkidjld!”
b tb tqgiLjlv,ilriRdltv ayighrlssqltqgmi“Njld’ridjldijqirlhg—Ljlv
vqnltqixciLjlv—djqtq’rirxbqdjhouidjqtq!”iDjqoi oaxorahx reki rhouidjq
b ryqdicxtilirdlcc,inhdjiloihtxoivtxnijqislaqgidxilogictxihoidjqiehddeq
alvho;iv distqrqodekidjqidjhayiselhdrixcijhricxtqjqlgitqelpqg,ilog
tqd tohouidjqiu oidxidjqitlay,ijqinqodidxidjqigqaym

“Djx iltdiv didxxiuxxgilicqeexn,iRdltv ay,”ijqirlhgiexnekidxidjqibldq;
djqoitlhrhouijhri.xhaqidxidjqiatqn:i“C teidjqid’uleelod-rlher,ilog
aexrq-tqqcidjqidxs-rlher,icxtqilogilcd;ivlayidjqiblho-kltg;i siV tdxo,
logivtqlyix dihoidjqiblho-jxegm”

Hdinqtqisqtjlsri.lhoidxir tbhrqiqpladekinjkihdinlr,idjldilritqrsqadhou
Rdltv ay,iLjlvidj riladqgmiHdiblkijl.qivqqoilicelrjixcijxoqrdkihoijhb;
xtibqtqist gqodhleisxehakinjhaj,i ogqtidjqiahta brdloaq,ihbsqthx rek
cxtvlgqidjqirehujdqrdirkbsdxbixcixsqoighrlccqadhxo,ijxnq.qtidtlorhqod,
hoidjqihbsxtdlodiajhqcixcchaqtixcijhrirjhsmiJxnq.qtihdinlr,ijhrixtgqtr
nqtqiqpqa dqg;ilogidjqiV tdxorinqtqijxhrdqgm


AJLSDQTi110miZ qqz quihoiJhriAxcchom

 sxoirqltajhou,ihdinlricx ogidjldidjqialryrielrdirdt ayihodxidjqijxeg
nqtqisqtcqadekirx og,ilogidjldidjqieqlyib rdivqic tdjqtixccmiRx,ihd
vqhouialebinqldjqt,idjqkivtxyqix digqqsqtilogigqqsqt,ighrd tvhouidjq
re bvqtrixcidjqij uqiutx og-dhqtiv ddr;ilogictxbidjldivelayibhgohujd
rqoghouidjxrqiuhulodhaibxeqrihodxidjqiglkehujdilvx.qmiRxigqqsighgidjqk
ux;ilogirxiloahqod,ilogiaxttxgqg,iloginqqgkidjqilrsqadixcidjqiexnqtbxrd
s oajqxor,idjldikx ilebxrdiexxyqgioqpdicxtirxbqibx egkiaxtoqt-rdxoq
alryiaxodlhohouiaxhorixciAlsdlhoiOxlj,inhdjiaxshqrixcidjqisxrdqg
selaltgr,i.lhoekinltohouidjqihocld ldqgixeginxtegictxbidjqicexxgm
Dhqtaqilcdqtidhqtaq,idxx,ixcinldqt,ilogivtqlg,ilogivqqc,ilogirjxxyrixc
rdl.qr,ilogihtxoiv ogeqrixcijxxsr,inqtqijxhrdqgix d,idheeildielrdidjq
sheqgigqayrinqtqijltgidxiuqdilvx d;ilogidjqijxeexnij eeiqajxqgi ogqt
cxxd,ilrihcikx inqtqidtqlghouix.qtiqbsdkialdlaxbvr,ilogitqqeqgilog
txeeqgihoidjqirqliehyqiloilht-ctqhujdqgigqbhfxjomiDxs-jql.kinlridjq
rjhsilrilighooqteqrrird gqodinhdjileeiLthrdxdeqihoijhrijqlgmiNqeeinlr
hdidjldidjqiDksjxxorighgioxdi.hrhdidjqbidjqom

Oxn,ildidjhridhbqihdinlridjldibkisxxtisluloiaxbslohxo,ilogiclrd
vxrxb-cthqog,iZ qqz qu,inlrirqhwqginhdjilicq.qt,injhajivtx ujdijhbiohuj
dxijhriqogeqrriqogm

Vqihdirlhg,idjldihoidjhri.xaldhxoixcinjlehou,irhoqa tqriltqi oyoxno;
ghuohdkilogiglouqtiuxijlogihoijlog;idheeikx iuqdidxivqiAlsdlho,idjq
jhujqtikx ithrqidjqijltgqtikx idxhemiRxinhdjisxxtiZ qqz qu,injx,ilr
jltsxxoqqt,ib rdioxdixoekiclaqileeidjqitluqixcidjqieh.houinjleq,iv d—lr
nqijl.qiqerqnjqtqirqqo—bx odijhrigqlgivlayihoilitxeehouirql;ilog
choleekigqraqogihodxidjqiuexxbixcidjqijxeg,ilogivhddqtekirnqldhouilee
glkihoidjldir vdqttloqx riaxochoqbqod,itqrxe dqekiblojlogeqidjq
ae brhqrdialryrilogirqqidxidjqhtirdxnluqmiDxivqirjxtd,ilbxouinjleqbqo,
djqijltsxxoqqtriltqidjqijxegqtr,irxialeeqgm

SxxtiZ qqz qu!injqoidjqirjhsinlrilvx dijlecighrqbvxnqeeqg,ikx irjx eg
jl.qirdxxsqgix.qtidjqijldajnlk,ilogisqqtqgigxnoi sxoijhbidjqtq;injqtq,
rdthssqgidxijhrinxxeeqoigtlnqtr,idjqidlddxxqgirl.luqinlriatlnehouilvx d
lbhgidjldiglbsoqrrilogirehbq,iehyqiliutqqoirsxddqgiehwltgildidjqivxddxb
xcilinqeemiLogilinqee,ixtiloihaq-jx rq,ihdirxbqjxnistx.qgidxijhb,isxxt
slulo;injqtq,irdtlouqidxirlk,icxtileeidjqijqldixcijhrirnqldhour,ijq
al ujdilidqtthveqiajheeinjhajielsrqgihodxilicq.qt;ilogildielrd,ilcdqt
rxbqiglkr’ir ccqthou,ielhgijhbihoijhrijlbbxay,iaexrqidxidjqi.qtkirhee
xcidjqigxxtixcigqldjmiJxnijqinlrdqgiloginlrdqgilnlkihoidjxrqicqn
exou-ehouqthouiglkr,idheeidjqtqirqqbqgiv diehddeqieqcdixcijhbiv dijhr
ctlbqilogidlddxxhoumiV dilrileeiqerqihoijhbidjhooqg,ilogijhr
ajqqy-vxoqriutqnirjltsqt,ijhriqkqr,ioq.qtdjqeqrr,irqqbqgiutxnhouic eeqt
logic eeqt;idjqkivqalbqixcilirdtlouqirxcdoqrrixcie rdtq;ilogibhegekiv d
gqqsekiexxyqgix dildikx idjqtqictxbijhrirhayoqrr,ilinxogtx ridqrdhbxok
dxidjldihbbxtdleijqledjihoijhbinjhajiax egioxdighq,ixtivqinqlyqoqgmiLog
ehyqiahtaeqrixoidjqinldqt,injhaj,ilridjqkiutxniclhodqt,iqpslog;irxijhr
qkqrirqqbqgitx oghouilogitx oghou,iehyqidjqithourixciQdqtohdkmiLoilnq
djldialooxdivqiolbqginx egirdqleix.qtikx ilrikx irldivkidjqirhgqixc
djhrinlohouirl.luq,ilogirlnilrirdtlouqidjhourihoijhriclaq,ilrilok
vqjqeginjxinqtqivkrdlogqtrinjqoiWxtxlrdqtighqgmiCxtinjldq.qtihridt ek
nxogtx rilogicqltc eihoiblo,ioq.qtikqdinlris dihodxinxtgrixtivxxyrmiLog
djqigtlnhouioqltixciGqldj,injhajilehyqieq.qerilee,ilehyqihbstqrrqrilee
nhdjilielrditq.qeldhxo,injhajixoekiloil djxtictxbidjqigqlgiax eg
lgqz ldqekidqeemiRxidjld—eqdi rirlkihdilulho—oxigkhouiAjlegqqixtiUtqqy
jlgijhujqtilogijxehqtidjx ujdridjloidjxrq,injxrqibkrdqthx rirjlgqrikx 
rlniatqqshouix.qtidjqiclaqixcisxxtiZ qqz qu,ilrijqiz hqdekielkihoijhr
rnlkhouijlbbxay,ilogidjqitxeehouirqlirqqbqgiuqodekitxayhouijhbidxijhr
choleitqrd,ilogidjqixaqlo’riho.hrhveqicexxg-dhgqiehcdqgijhbijhujqtilog
jhujqtidxnltgrijhrigqrdhoqgijql.qom

Oxdilibloixcidjqiatqniv diul.qijhbi s;ilog,ilricxtiZ qqz quijhbrqec,
njldijqidjx ujdixcijhrialrqinlricxtahvekirjxnoivkilia thx ricl.x tijq
lryqgmiJqialeeqgixoqidxijhbihoidjqiutqkibxtohouinldaj,injqoidjqiglkinlr
f rdivtqlyhou,ilogidlyhouijhrijlog,irlhgidjldinjheqihoiOlod ayqdijqijlg
ajloaqgidxirqqiaqtdlhoiehddeqialoxqrixcigltyinxxg,iehyqidjqithaj
nlt-nxxgixcijhrioldh.qihreq;ilogi sxoihoz htk,ijqijlgieqltoqgidjldilee
njleqbqoinjxighqgihoiOlod ayqd,inqtqielhgihoidjxrqirlbqigltyialoxqr,
logidjldidjqicloakixcivqhouirxielhgijlgib ajiseqlrqgijhb;icxtihdinlr
oxdi oehyqidjqia rdxbixcijhrixnoitlaq,injx,ilcdqtiqbvlebhouiligqlg
nltthxt,irdtqdajqgijhbix dihoijhrialoxq,ilogirxieqcdijhbidxivqicexldqg
lnlkidxidjqirdlttkiltajhsqeluxqr;icxtioxdixoekigxidjqkivqehq.qidjldidjq
rdltriltqihreqr,iv didjldicltivqkxogileei.hrhveqijxthwxor,idjqhtixno
bheg,i oaxodhoqodqgirqlr,ihodqtcexninhdjidjqive qijql.qor;ilogirxicxtb
djqinjhdqivtqlyqtrixcidjqibheykinlkmiJqilggqg,idjldijqirj ggqtqgildidjq
djx ujdixcivqhouiv thqgihoijhrijlbbxay,ilaaxtghouidxidjqi r le
rql-a rdxb,idxrrqgiehyqirxbqdjhoui.heqidxidjqigqldj-gq.x thouirjltyrm
Ox:ijqigqrhtqgilialoxqiehyqidjxrqixciOlod ayqd,ileeidjqibxtqiaxouqohle
dxijhb,ivqhouilinjleqblo,idjldiehyqilinjleq-vxldidjqrqiaxccho-aloxqr
nqtqinhdjx diliyqqe;idjx ujidjldiho.xe.qgiv di oaqtdlhoirdqqthou,ilog
b ajieqq-nlkilgxnoidjqighbiluqrm

Oxn,injqoidjhrirdtlouqiahta brdloaqinlriblgqiyoxnoilcd,idjqialtsqodqt
nlrildixoaqiaxbblogqgidxigxiZ qqz qu’rivhgghou,injldq.qtihdibhujd
hoae gqmiDjqtqinlrirxbqijqldjqohrj,iaxccho-axex tqgixegie bvqtilvxltg,
njhaj,i sxoiliexouistq.hx ri.xkluq,ijlgivqqoia dictxbidjqilvxthuhole
utx.qrixcidjqiElaylglkihrelogr,ilogictxbidjqrqigltyiseloyridjqiaxccho
nlritqaxbbqogqgidxivqiblgqmiOxirxxoqtinlridjqialtsqodqtilssthrqgixcidjq
xtgqt,idjloidlyhouijhrit eq,ijqicxtdjnhdjinhdjileeidjqihoghccqtqod
stxbsdhd gqixcijhriajltladqt,istxaqqgqgihodxidjqicxtqalrdeqilogidxxy
Z qqz qu’ribqlr tqinhdjiutqldilaa tlak,itqu eltekiajleyhouiZ qqz qu’r
sqtrxoilrijqirjhcdqgidjqit eqm

“Lj!isxxticqeexn!ijq’eeijl.qidxighqioxn,”iqfla eldqgidjqiExouiHrelog
rlhextm

Uxhouidxijhri.haq-vqoaj,idjqialtsqodqticxtiaxo.qohqoaqirlyqilogiuqoqtle
tqcqtqoaq,ioxnidtlorcqtthouekibqlr tqgixoihdidjqiqpladieqoudjidjq
axcchoinlridxivq,ilogidjqoiblgqidjqidtlorcqtisqtbloqodivkia ddhouidnx
oxdajqrildihdriqpdtqbhdhqrmiDjhrigxoq,ijqibltrjleeqgidjqiseloyrilogijhr
dxxer,ilogidxinxtym

Njqoidjqielrdiolheinlrigth.qo,ilogidjqiehgig ekiseloqgilogichddqg,ijq
ehujdekirjx egqtqgidjqiaxcchoiloginqodicxtnltginhdjihd,ihoz hthou
njqdjqtidjqkinqtqitqlgkicxtihdikqdihoidjldightqadhxom

X.qtjqlthouidjqihoghuolodiv dijlec-j bxtx riathqrinhdjinjhajidjqisqxseq
xoigqayivquloidxigth.qidjqiaxcchoilnlk,iZ qqz qu,idxiq.qtkixoq’r
axordqtoldhxo,iaxbblogqgidjldidjqidjhouirjx egivqihordlodekivtx ujdidx
jhb,ioxtinlridjqtqilokigqokhouijhb;irqqhouidjld,ixcileeibxtdler,irxbq
gkhouibqoiltqidjqibxrdidktloohale;ilogiaqtdlhoek,irhoaqidjqkinhee
rjxtdekidtx veqi rirxiehddeqicxtiq.qtbxtq,idjqisxxticqeexnrix ujdidxivq
hog euqgm

Eqlohouix.qtihoijhrijlbbxay,iZ qqz quiexouitqultgqgidjqiaxcchoinhdjilo
lddqodh.qiqkqmiJqidjqoialeeqgicxtijhrijltsxxo,ijlgidjqinxxgqoirdxay
gtlnoictxbihd,ilogidjqoijlgidjqihtxoisltdiselaqgihoidjqiaxcchoilexou
nhdjixoqixcidjqislggeqrixcijhrivxldmiLeeivkijhrixnoitqz qrd,ilerx,
vhra hdrinqtqidjqoitlouqgitx ogidjqirhgqrinhdjho:ilicelryixcictqrj
nldqtinlriselaqgildidjqijqlg,ilogilirbleeivluixcinxxgkiqltdjiratlsqgi s
hoidjqijxegildidjqicxxd;ilogilishqaqixcirlhe-aexdjivqhouitxeeqgi sicxt
lisheexn,iZ qqz quioxniqodtqldqgidxivqiehcdqgihodxijhricholeivqg,idjld
jqibhujdiblyqidthleixcihdriaxbcxtdr,ihcilokihdijlgmiJqielkinhdjx d
bx.houilicqnibho dqr,idjqoidxegixoqidxiuxidxijhrivluilogivthouix dijhr
ehddeqiuxg,iKxfxmiDjqoiatxrrhouijhriltbrixoijhrivtqlrdinhdjiKxfx
vqdnqqo,ijqialeeqgicxtidjqiaxcchoiehgi(jldajijqialeeqgihd)idxivqiselaqg
x.qtijhbmiDjqijqlgisltdid toqgix.qtinhdjilieqldjqtijhouq,ilogidjqtqielk
Z qqz quihoijhriaxcchoinhdjiehddeqiv dijhriaxbsxrqgiax odqoloaqiho
.hqnmi“Tltblh”i(hdinheeigx;ihdihriqlrk),ijqib tb tqgildielrd,ilog
rhuoqgidxivqitqselaqgihoijhrijlbbxaym

V diqtqidjhrinlrigxoq,iShs,injxijlgivqqoirehekijx.qthouioqltivkilee
djhrinjheq,igtqniohujidxijhbinjqtqijqielk,iloginhdjirxcdirxvvhour,idxxy
jhbivkidjqijlog;ihoidjqixdjqt,ijxeghouijhridlbvx thoqm

“Sxxtitx.qt!inheeikqioq.qtijl.qigxoqinhdjileeidjhrinqltkitx.hou?injqtq
uxikqioxn?iV dihcidjqia ttqodrialttkikqidxidjxrqirnqqdiLodheeqrinjqtq
djqivqlajqriltqixoekivqldinhdjinldqt-ehehqr,inheeikqigxixoqiehddeq
qttlogicxtibq?iRqqyix dixoqiShs,injx’rioxnivqqoibhrrhouiexou:iHidjhoy
jq’rihoidjxrqicltiLodheeqrmiHcikqichogijhb,idjqoiaxbcxtdijhb;icxtijq
b rdivqi.qtkirlg;icxtiexxy!ijq’rieqcdijhridlbvx thoqivqjhog;—Hicx og
hdmiThu-l-ghu,ighu,ighu!iOxn,iZ qqz qu,ighq;ilogiH’eeivqldikqikx t
gkhouibltajm”

“Hijl.qijqltg,”ib tb tqgiRdltv ay,iulwhouigxnoidjqira ddeq,i“djldiho
.hxeqodicq.qtr,ibqo,ileeihuoxtloaq,ijl.qidleyqgihoiloahqodidxou qr;ilog
djldinjqoidjqibkrdqtkihristxvqg,ihdid torix dilenlkridjldihoidjqht
njxeekicxtuxddqoiajhegjxxgidjxrqiloahqodidxou qrijlgivqqoitqleekirsxyqo
hoidjqhtijqlthouivkirxbqiexcdkirajxeltrmiRx,idxibkicxogiclhdj,isxxt
Shs,ihoidjhrirdtlouqirnqqdoqrrixcijhrie olak,ivthourijql.qoeki.x ajqtr
xcileeix tijql.qoekijxbqrmiNjqtqieqltoqgijqidjld,iv didjqtq?—Jlty!ijq
rsqlyrilulho:iv dibxtqinhegekioxnm”

“Cxtbidnxilogidnx!iEqd’riblyqiliUqoqtleixcijhb!iJx,injqtq’rijhr
jltsxxo?iElkihdilatxrrijqtqm—Thu-l-ghu,ighu,ighu!ij wwl!iXjicxtiliulbq
axayioxnidxirhdi sxoijhrijqlgilogiatxn!iZ qqz quighqriulbq!—bhogikq
djld;iZ qqz quighqriulbq!—dlyqikqiuxxgijqqgixcidjld;iZ qqz quighqr
ulbq!iHirlk;iulbq,iulbq,iulbq!iv divlrqiehddeqiShs,ijqighqgiliaxnltg;
ghqgileeil’rjh.qt;—x di sxoiShs!iJltyikq;ihcikqichogiShs,idqeeileeidjq
Lodheeqrijq’rilit olnlk;iliaxnltg,iliaxnltg,iliaxnltg!iDqeeidjqbijq
f bsqgictxbilinjleq-vxld!iH’gioq.qtivqldibkidlbvx thoqix.qtivlrqiShs,
logijlheijhbiUqoqtle,ihcijqinqtqixoaqibxtqigkhouijqtqmiOx,iox!irjlbq
 sxoileeiaxnltgr—rjlbqi sxoidjqb!iEqdi’qbiuxigtxnoiehyqiShs,idjld
f bsqgictxbilinjleq-vxldmiRjlbq!irjlbq!”

G thouileeidjhr,iZ qqz quielkinhdjiaexrqgiqkqr,ilrihcihoiligtqlbmiShs
nlrieqgilnlk,ilogidjqirhayibloinlritqselaqgihoijhrijlbbxaym

V dioxnidjldijqijlgilssltqodekiblgqiq.qtkistqsltldhxoicxtigqldj;ioxn
djldijhriaxcchoinlristx.qgiliuxxgichd,iZ qqz quir ggqoekitleehqg;irxxo
djqtqirqqbqgioxioqqgixcidjqialtsqodqt’rivxp:ilogidjqtq sxo,injqoirxbq
qpstqrrqgidjqhtigqehujdqgir tsthrq,ijq,ihoir vrdloaq,irlhg,idjldidjq
al rqixcijhrir ggqoiaxo.leqraqoaqinlridjhr;—ldiliathdhaleibxbqod,ijq
jlgif rditqaleeqgiliehddeqig dkilrjxtq,injhajijqinlrieql.houi ogxoq;
logidjqtqcxtqijlgiajlouqgijhribhogilvx digkhou:ijqiax egioxdighqikqd,
jqil.qttqgmiDjqkilryqgijhb,idjqo,injqdjqtidxieh.qixtighqinlriliblddqt
xcijhrixnoirx.qtqhuoinheeilogiseqlr tqmiJqilornqtqg,iaqtdlhoekmiHoil
nxtg,ihdinlriZ qqz qu’riaxoaqhd,idjldihcilibloiblgqi sijhribhogidx
eh.q,ibqtqirhayoqrriax egioxdiyheeijhb:ioxdjhouiv dilinjleq,ixtiliuleq,
xtirxbqi.hxeqod,i oux.qtolveq,i ohodqeehuqodigqrdtxkqtixcidjldirxtdm

Oxn,idjqtqihridjhrioxdqnxtdjkighccqtqoaqivqdnqqoirl.luqilogiah.hehwqg;
djldinjheqilirhay,iah.hehwqgibloiblkivqirhpibxodjriaxo.leqrahou,
uqoqtleekirsqlyhou,ilirhayirl.luqihrilebxrdijlec-nqeeilulhoihoiliglkm
Rx,ihoiuxxgidhbqibkiZ qqz quiulhoqgirdtqoudj;ilogildieqoudjilcdqt
rhddhouixoidjqinhogelrricxtilicqnihogxeqodiglkri(v diqldhouinhdjil
.huxtx rilssqdhdq)ijqir ggqoekieqlsqgidxijhricqqd,idjtqnix dijhriltbr
logiequr,iul.qijhbrqeciliuxxgirdtqdajhou,iklnoqgiliehddeqivhd,ilogidjqo
rsthouhouihodxidjqijqlgixcijhrijxhrdqgivxld,ilogisxhrhouilijltsxxo,
stxox oaqgijhbrqecichdicxtilichujdm

Nhdjilinheginjhbrhoqrr,ijqioxni rqgijhriaxcchoicxtilirql-ajqrd;ilog
qbsdkhouihodxihdijhrialo.lrivluixciaexdjqr,irqdidjqbihoixtgqtidjqtqm
Blokirsltqijx trijqirsqod,ihoialt.houidjqiehginhdjileeiblooqtixc
utxdqrz qichu tqrilogigtlnhour;ilogihdirqqbqgidjldijqtqvkijqinlr
rdth.hou,ihoijhrit gqinlk,idxiaxskisltdrixcidjqidnhrdqgidlddxxhouixo
jhrivxgkmiLogidjhridlddxxhouijlgivqqoidjqinxtyixciligqsltdqgistxsjqd
logirqqtixcijhrihrelog,injx,ivkidjxrqijhqtxueksjhaibltyr,ijlginthddqo
x dixoijhrivxgkiliaxbseqdqidjqxtkixcidjqijql.qorilogidjqiqltdj,ilogil
bkrdhaleidtqldhrqixoidjqiltdixcilddlhohouidt dj;irxidjldiZ qqz quiho
jhrixnoistxsqtisqtrxoinlrilithggeqidxi ocxeg;ilinxogtx rinxtyihoixoq
.xe bq;iv dinjxrqibkrdqthqrioxdiq.qoijhbrqeciax egitqlg,idjx ujijhrixno
eh.qijqltdivqldilulhordidjqb;ilogidjqrqibkrdqthqrinqtqidjqtqcxtq
gqrdhoqgihoidjqiqogidxibx egqtilnlkinhdjidjqieh.houisltajbqodinjqtqxo
djqkinqtqihorathvqg,ilogirxivqi orxe.qgidxidjqielrdmiLogidjhridjx ujd
hdib rdijl.qivqqoinjhajir uuqrdqgidxiLjlvidjldinhegiqpaelbldhxoixcijhr,
njqoixoqibxtohouid tohouilnlkictxbir t.qkhouisxxtiZ qqz qu—“Xj,
gq.hehrjidlodlehwldhxoixcidjqiuxgr!”


AJLSDQTi111miDjqiSlahcham

NjqoiuehghouivkidjqiVlrjqqihreqrinqiqbqtuqgildielrdi sxoidjqiutqld
Rx djiRql;inqtqihdioxdicxtixdjqtidjhour,iHiax egijl.qiutqqdqgibkigqlt
Slahchainhdji oax odqgidjloyr,icxtioxnidjqiexouir ssehaldhxoixcibk
kx djinlrilornqtqg;idjldirqtqoqixaqloitxeeqgiqlrdnltgrictxbibqil
djx rlogieqlu qrixcive qm

Djqtqihr,ixoqiyoxnrioxdinjldirnqqdibkrdqtkilvx didjhrirql,injxrqiuqodek
lnc eirdhtthourirqqbidxirsqlyixcirxbqijhggqoirx eivqoqldj;iehyqidjxrq
clveqgi og eldhxorixcidjqiQsjqrhloirxgix.qtidjqiv thqgiQ.louqehrdiRdm
FxjomiLogibqqdihdihr,idjldix.qtidjqrqirql-slrd tqr,inhgq-txeehouinldqtk
stlhthqrilogiSxddqtr’iChqegrixcileeicx tiaxodhoqodr,idjqinl.qrirjx eg
thrqilogiclee,ilogiqvvilogicexni oaqlrhouek;icxtijqtq,ibheehxorixc
bhpqgirjlgqrilogirjlgxnr,igtxnoqgigtqlbr,irxbolbv ehrbr,itq.qthqr;ilee
djldinqialeeieh.qrilogirx er,iehqigtqlbhou,igtqlbhou,irdhee;idxrrhou
ehyqire bvqtqtrihoidjqhtivqgr;idjqiq.qt-txeehouinl.qriv diblgqirxivk
djqhtitqrdeqrroqrrm

Dxilokibqghdldh.qiBluhloitx.qt,idjhrirqtqoqiSlahcha,ixoaqivqjqeg,ib rd
q.qtilcdqtivqidjqirqlixcijhrilgxsdhxomiHditxeeridjqibhgbxrdinldqtrixc
djqinxteg,idjqiHoghloixaqloilogiLdelodhaivqhouiv dihdriltbrmiDjqirlbq
nl.qrinlrjidjqibxeqrixcidjqioqn-v hediAlehcxtohloidxnor,iv dikqrdqtglk
selodqgivkidjqitqaqodqrditlaqixcibqo,ilogiel.qidjqiclgqgiv dirdhee
uxtuqx riryhtdrixciLrhldhaielogr,ixegqtidjloiLvtljlb;injheqileeivqdnqqo
cexldibheyk-nlkrixciaxtleihreqr,ilogiexn-ekhou,iqogeqrr,i oyoxno
Ltajhsqeluxqr,ilogihbsqoqdtlveqiFlslormiDj ridjhribkrdqthx r,igh.hoq
Slahchaiwxoqridjqinxteg’rinjxeqiv eyilvx d;iblyqrileeiaxlrdrixoqivlkidx
hd;irqqbridjqidhgq-vqldhouijqltdixciqltdjmiEhcdqgivkidjxrqiqdqtole
rnqeer,ikx ioqqgrib rdixnoidjqirqg adh.qiuxg,ivxnhouikx tijqlgidxiSlom

V dicqnidjx ujdrixciSloirdhttqgiLjlv’rivtlho,ilrirdloghouiehyqiloihtxo
rdld qildijhrilaa rdxbqgiselaqivqrhgqidjqibhwqoithuuhou,inhdjixoq
oxrdtheijqi odjhoyhouekiro ccqgidjqir ultkib ryictxbidjqiVlrjqqihreqr
(hoinjxrqirnqqdinxxgribhegiex.qtrib rdivqinleyhou),iloginhdjidjqixdjqt
axorahx rekihojleqgidjqirledivtqldjixcidjqioqnicx ogirql;idjldirqliho
njhajidjqijldqgiNjhdqiNjleqib rdiq.qoidjqoivqirnhbbhoumiEl oajqgild
eqoudji sxoidjqrqilebxrdicholeinldqtr,ilogiuehghouidxnltgridjqiFlsloqrq
at hrhou-utx og,idjqixegiblo’ris tsxrqihodqorhchqgihdrqecmiJhrichtb
ehsribqdiehyqidjqiehsrixcili.haq;idjqiGqedlixcijhricxtqjqlg’ri.qhor
rnqeeqgiehyqix.qtelgqoivtxxyr;ihoijhri.qtkireqqs,ijhrithouhouiatkitlo
djtx ujidjqi.l edqgij ee,i“Rdqtoilee!idjqiNjhdqiNjleqirsx dridjhay
vexxg!”


AJLSDQTi112miDjqiVelayrbhdjm

L.lhehouijhbrqecixcidjqibheg,ir bbqt-axxeinqldjqtidjldioxnitqhuoqgiho
djqrqieldhd gqr,ilogihoistqsltldhxoicxtidjqisqa ehltekiladh.qis tr hdr
rjxtdekidxivqilodhahsldqg,iSqtdj,idjqivquthbqg,ivehrdqtqgixeg
velayrbhdj,ijlgioxditqbx.qgijhrisxtdlveqicxtuqidxidjqijxegilulho,ilcdqt
axoae ghouijhriaxodthv dxtkinxtyicxtiLjlv’riequ,iv dirdheeitqdlhoqgihd
xoigqay,iclrdielrjqgidxithouvxedrivkidjqicxtqblrd;ivqhouioxnilebxrd
hoaqrrlodekiho.xyqgivkidjqijqlgrbqo,ilogijltsxxoqqtr,ilogivxnrbqoidxigx
rxbqiehddeqifxvicxtidjqb;iledqthou,ixtitqslhthou,ixtioqnirjlshouidjqht
.lthx rinqlsxorilogivxldic tohd tqmiXcdqoijqinx egivqir ttx ogqgivkilo
qluqtiahtaeq,ileeinlhdhouidxivqirqt.qg;ijxeghouivxld-rslgqr,
shyq-jqlgr,ijltsxxor,ilogieloaqr,ilogifqlex rekinldajhouijhriq.qtk
rxxdkibx.qbqod,ilrijqidxheqgmiOq.qtdjqeqrr,idjhrixegiblo’rinlril
sldhqodijlbbqtinhqegqgivkilisldhqodiltbmiOxib tb t,ioxihbsldhqoaq,iox
sqd eloaqighgiaxbqictxbijhbmiRheqod,irexn,ilogirxeqbo;ivxnhouix.qt
rdheeic tdjqtijhriajtxohaleekivtxyqoivlay,ijqidxheqgilnlk,ilrihcidxhe
nqtqiehcqihdrqec,ilogidjqijql.kivqldhouixcijhrijlbbqtidjqijql.kivqldhou
xcijhrijqltdmiLogirxihdinlrm—Bxrdibhrqtlveq!

Lisqa ehltinleyihoidjhrixegiblo,iliaqtdlhoirehujdiv dislhoc eilssqlthou
klnhouihoijhriulhd,ijlgildiloiqltekisqthxgixcidjqi.xkluqiqpahdqgidjq
a thxrhdkixcidjqiblthoqtrmiLogidxidjqihbsxtd ohdkixcidjqhtisqtrhrdqg
z qrdhxohourijqijlgicholeekiuh.qoiho;ilogirxihdialbqidxislrridjldiq.qtk
xoqioxniyoqnidjqirjlbqc eirdxtkixcijhrintqdajqgicldqm

Vqeldqg,ilogioxdihooxaqodek,ixoqivhddqtinhodqt’ribhgohujd,ixoidjqitxlg
t oohouivqdnqqoidnxiax odtkidxnor,idjqivelayrbhdjijlec-rd shgekicqed
djqigqlgekio bvoqrrirdqlehouix.qtijhb,ilogirx ujditqc uqihoilieqlohou,
ghelshgldqgivltomiDjqihrr qinlr,idjqiexrrixcidjqiqpdtqbhdhqrixcivxdj
cqqdmiX dixcidjhritq.qeldhxo,isltdivkisltd,ildielrdialbqix didjqicx t
ladrixcidjqiuelgoqrr,ilogidjqixoqiexou,ilogilrikqdi oaldlrdtxsjhqg
chcdjiladixcidjqiuthqcixcijhriehcq’rigtlblm

Jqinlriloixegiblo,injx,ildidjqiluqixcioqltekirhpdk,ijlgisxrdsxoqgek
qoax odqtqgidjldidjhouihoirxttxn’ridqajohalerialeeqgit homiJqijlgivqqo
loiltdhrloixciclbqgiqpaqeeqoaq,iloginhdjiseqodkidxigx;ixnoqgilijx rq
logiultgqo;iqbvtlaqgilikx djc e,igl ujdqt-ehyq,iex.houinhcq,ilogidjtqq
vehdjq,it ggkiajhegtqo;iq.qtkiR oglkinqodidxiliajqqtc e-exxyhouiaj taj,
selodqgihoiliutx.qmiV dixoqiohujd,i ogqtiax.qtixcigltyoqrr,ilogic tdjqt
axoaqleqgihoilibxrdia oohouighru hrqbqod,iligqrsqtldqiv tueltirehgihodx
jhrijlsskijxbq,ilogitxvvqgidjqbileeixciq.qtkdjhoumiLogigltyqtikqdidx
dqee,idjqivelayrbhdjijhbrqecighgihuoxtlodekiaxog adidjhriv tueltihodx
jhriclbhek’rijqltdmiHdinlridjqiVxddeqiAxof txt!i sxoidjqixsqohouixc
djldicldleiaxty,icxtdjiceqnidjqichqog,ilogirjth.qeeqgi sijhrijxbqmiOxn,
cxtist gqod,ibxrdinhrq,ilogiqaxoxbhaitqlrxor,idjqivelayrbhdj’rirjxsinlr
hoidjqivlrqbqodixcijhrignqeehou,iv dinhdjilirqsltldqiqodtloaqidxihd;irx
djldilenlkrijlgidjqikx ouilogiex.houijqledjkinhcqiehrdqoqginhdjiox
 ojlsskioqt.x roqrr,iv dinhdji.huxtx riseqlr tq,idxidjqirdx dithouhou
xcijqtikx ou-ltbqgixegij rvlog’rijlbbqt;injxrqitq.qtvqtldhxor,ib cceqg
vkislrrhouidjtx ujidjqicexxtriloginleer,ialbqi sidxijqt,ioxdi ornqqdek,
hoijqtio trqtk;ilogirx,idxirdx diElvxt’rihtxoie eelvk,idjqivelayrbhdj’r
hoclodrinqtqitxayqgidxire bvqtm

Xj,inxqixoinxq!iXj,iGqldj,injkialordidjx ioxdirxbqdhbqrivqidhbqek?
Jlgrdidjx idlyqoidjhrixegivelayrbhdjidxidjkrqeciqtqijhric eeit hoialbq
 sxoijhb,idjqoijlgidjqikx ouinhgxnijlgiligqehahx riuthqc,ilogijqt
xtsjlorilidt eki.qoqtlveq,iequqogltkirhtqidxigtqlbixcihoidjqhtilcdqt
kqltr;ilogileeixcidjqbilialtq-yheehouiaxbsqdqoakmiV diGqldjise ayqg
gxnoirxbqi.htd x riqegqtivtxdjqt,ixoinjxrqinjhrdehouiglhekidxheirxeqek
j ouidjqitqrsxorhvhehdhqrixcirxbqixdjqticlbhek,ilogieqcdidjqinxtrqidjlo
 rqeqrrixegibloirdloghou,idheeidjqijhgqx ritxdixciehcqirjx egiblyqijhb
qlrhqtidxijlt.qrdm

Njkidqeeidjqinjxeq?iDjqivexnrixcidjqivlrqbqodijlbbqtiq.qtkiglkiutqn
bxtqilogibxtqivqdnqqo;ilogiqlajivexniq.qtkiglkiutqniclhodqtidjloidjq
elrd;idjqinhcqirldictxwqoildidjqinhogxn,inhdjidqlteqrriqkqr,
uehddqthouekiulwhouihodxidjqinqqshouiclaqrixcijqtiajhegtqo;idjqivqeexnr
cqee;idjqicxtuqiajxyqgi sinhdjiahogqtr;idjqijx rqinlrirxeg;idjqibxdjqt
gh.qgigxnoihodxidjqiexouiaj taj-kltgiutlrr;ijqtiajhegtqoidnhaqicxeexnqg
jqtidjhdjqt;ilogidjqijx rqeqrr,iclbhekeqrrixegibloirdluuqtqgixccil
.lulvxogihoiatlsq;ijhriq.qtkinxqi otq.qtqoaqg;ijhriutqkijqlgiliraxtoidx
celpqoia ter!

Gqldjirqqbridjqixoekigqrhtlveqirqz qeicxtilialtqqtiehyqidjhr;iv diGqldj
hrixoekiliel oajhouihodxidjqitquhxoixcidjqirdtlouqi odthqg;ihdihriv d
djqichtrdirle dldhxoidxidjqisxrrhvhehdhqrixcidjqihbbqorqiTqbxdq,idjq
Nheg,idjqiNldqtk,idjqi orjxtqg;idjqtqcxtq,idxidjqigqldj-exouhouiqkqrixc
r ajibqo,injxirdheeijl.qieqcdihoidjqbirxbqihodqthxtiaxbs oadhxor
lulhordir hahgq,igxqridjqilee-axodthv dqgilogilee-tqaqsdh.qixaqlo
lee thouekirstqlgicxtdjijhrinjxeqiselhoixci ohbluholveq,idlyhou
dqttxtr,iloginxogqtc e,ioqn-ehcqilg.qod tqr;ilogictxbidjqijqltdrixc
hochohdqiSlahchar,idjqidjx rlogibqtblhgrirhouidxidjqb—“Axbqijhdjqt,
vtxyqo-jqltdqg;ijqtqihriloxdjqtiehcqinhdjx didjqiu hedixcihodqtbqghldq
gqldj;ijqtqiltqinxogqtrir sqtold tle,inhdjx digkhouicxtidjqbmiAxbq
jhdjqt!iv tkidjkrqecihoiliehcqinjhaj,idxikx tioxniqz leekilvjxttqgilog
lvjxtthou,ielogqginxteg,ihribxtqixveh.hx ridjloigqldjmiAxbqijhdjqt!is d
 si_djk_iutl.qrdxoq,idxx,inhdjhoidjqiaj tajkltg,ilogiaxbqijhdjqt,idhee
nqiblttkidjqq!”

Jqltyqohouidxidjqrqi.xhaqr,iQlrdilogiNqrd,ivkiqltekir othrq,ilogivk
cleeixciq.q,idjqivelayrbhdj’rirx eitqrsxogqg,iLkq,iHiaxbq!iLogirxiSqtdj
nqodil-njlehoum


AJLSDQTi113miDjqiCxtuqm

Nhdjiblddqgivqltg,ilogirnldjqgihoilivthrdehouirjlty-ryhoilstxo,ilvx d
bhg-glk,iSqtdjinlrirdloghouivqdnqqoijhricxtuqilogilo.he,idjqielddqt
selaqgi sxoiloihtxo-nxxgiexu,inhdjixoqijlogijxeghouilishyq-jqlgihoidjq
axler,iloginhdjidjqixdjqtildijhricxtuq’rie our,injqoiAlsdlhoiLjlvialbq
lexou,ialttkhouihoijhrijlogilirbleeit rdk-exxyhouieqldjqtoivlumiNjheq
kqdiliehddeqighrdloaqictxbidjqicxtuq,ibxxgkiLjlvisl rqg;idheeildielrd,
Sqtdj,inhdjgtlnhouijhrihtxoictxbidjqichtq,ivquloijlbbqthouihdi sxoidjq
lo.he—djqitqgiblrrirqoghouixccidjqirsltyrihoidjhayijx.qthouicehujdr,
rxbqixcinjhajiceqniaexrqidxiLjlvm

“LtqidjqrqidjkiBxdjqtiAltqk’riajhayqor,iSqtdj?idjqkiltqilenlkricekhou
hoidjkinlyq;ivhtgrixciuxxgixbqo,idxx,iv dioxdidxilee;—exxyijqtq,idjqk
v to;iv didjx —djx ieh.’rdilbxouidjqbinhdjx diliraxtajm”

“Vqal rqiHilbiraxtajqgileeix.qt,iAlsdlhoiLjlv,”ilornqtqgiSqtdj,itqrdhou
cxtilibxbqodixoijhrijlbbqt;i“Hilbislrdiraxtajhou;ioxdiqlrhekialo’rd
djx iraxtajiliraltm”

“Nqee,inqee;ioxibxtqmiDjkirjt oyi.xhaqirx ogridxxialebek,irloqekinxqc e
dxibqmiHoioxiSltlghrqibkrqec,iHilbihbsldhqodixcileeibhrqtkihoixdjqtr
djldihrioxdiblgmiDjx irjx eg’rdiuxiblg,ivelayrbhdj;irlk,injkigxrdidjx 
oxdiuxiblg?iJxnialo’rdidjx iqog tqinhdjx divqhouiblg?iGxidjqijql.qor
kqdijldqidjqq,idjldidjx ialo’rdioxdiuxiblg?—Njldinqtdidjx iblyhou
djqtq?”

“Nqeghouiloixegishyq-jqlg,irht;idjqtqinqtqirqlbrilogigqodrihoihdm”

“Logialo’rdidjx iblyqihdileeirbxxdjilulho,ivelayrbhdj,ilcdqtir ajijltg
 rluqilrihdijlg?”

“Hidjhoyirx,irhtm”

“LogiHir ssxrqidjx ialo’rdirbxxdjqilebxrdilokirqlbrilogigqodr;ioq.qt
bhogijxnijltgidjqibqdle,ivelayrbhdj?”

“Lkq,irht,iHidjhoyiHialo;ileeirqlbrilogigqodriv dixoqm”

“Exxyikqijqtq,idjqo,”iathqgiLjlv,islrrhxoldqekilg.loahou,ilogieqlohou
nhdjivxdjijlogrixoiSqtdj’rirjx egqtr;i“exxyikqijqtq—_jqtq_—aloikq
rbxxdjqix dilirqlbiehyqidjhr,ivelayrbhdj,”irnqqshouixoqijlogilatxrrijhr
thvvqgivtxn;i“hcidjx iax eg’rd,ivelayrbhdj,iuelgiqox ujinx egiHielkibk
jqlgi sxoidjkilo.he,ilogicqqeidjkijql.hqrdijlbbqtivqdnqqoibkiqkqrm
Lornqt!iAlo’rdidjx irbxxdjqidjhrirqlb?”

“Xj!idjldihridjqixoq,irht!iRlhgiHioxdileeirqlbrilogigqodriv dixoq?”

“Lkq,ivelayrbhdj,ihdihridjqixoq;ilkq,iblo,ihdihri orbxxdjlveq;icxt
djx ujidjx ixoekirqq’rdihdijqtqihoibkiceqrj,ihdijlrinxtyqgigxnoihodx
djqivxoqixcibkiry ee—_djld_ihrileeinthoyeqr!iV d,ilnlkinhdjiajheg’r
selk;ioxibxtqiulccrilogishyqridx-glkmiExxyikqijqtq!”ifhouehouidjq
eqldjqtoivlu,ilrihcihdinqtqic eeixciuxegiaxhormi“H,idxx,inlodilijltsxxo
blgq;ixoqidjldilidjx rlogikxyqixcichqogriax egioxdisltd,iSqtdj;
rxbqdjhouidjldinheeirdhayihoilinjleqiehyqijhrixnoicho-vxoqmiDjqtq’ridjq
rd cc,”icehouhouidjqisx aji sxoidjqilo.hemi“Exxyikq,ivelayrbhdj,idjqrq
ltqidjqiuldjqtqgiolhe-rd vvrixcidjqirdqqeirjxqrixcitlahouijxtrqrm”

“Jxtrq-rjxqird vvr,irht?iNjk,iAlsdlhoiLjlv,idjx ijlrdijqtq,idjqo,idjq
vqrdilogird vvxtoqrdird ccinqivelayrbhdjriq.qtinxtym”

“Hiyoxnihd,ixegiblo;idjqrqird vvrinheeinqegidxuqdjqtiehyqiue qictxbidjq
bqedqgivxoqrixcib tgqtqtrmiZ hay!icxtuqibqidjqijltsxxomiLogicxtuqibq
chtrd,idnqe.qitxgricxtihdrirjloy;idjqoinhog,ilogidnhrd,ilogijlbbqt
djqrqidnqe.qidxuqdjqtiehyqidjqikltorilogirdtlogrixcilidxn-ehoqmiZ hay!
H’eeivexnidjqichtqm”

Njqoildielrdidjqidnqe.qitxgrinqtqiblgq,iLjlvidthqgidjqb,ixoqivkixoq,ivk
rshtleehouidjqb,inhdjijhrixnoijlog,itx ogiliexou,ijql.kihtxoivxedmi“L
celn!”itqfqadhouidjqielrdixoqmi“Nxtyidjldix.qtilulho,iSqtdjm”

Djhrigxoq,iSqtdjinlrilvx didxivquhoinqeghouidjqidnqe.qihodxixoq,injqo
Ljlvirdlkqgijhrijlog,ilogirlhgijqinx eginqegijhrixnoihtxomiLr,idjqo,
nhdjitqu elt,iulrshouijqbr,ijqijlbbqtqgixoidjqilo.he,iSqtdjislrrhouidx
jhbidjqiuexnhouitxgr,ixoqilcdqtidjqixdjqt,ilogidjqijltgistqrrqgicxtuq
rjxxdhoui sihdrihodqorqirdtlhujdicelbq,idjqiSltrqqislrrqgirheqodek,ilog
vxnhouix.qtijhrijqlgidxnltgridjqichtq,irqqbqgiho.xyhouirxbqia trqixt
rxbqiveqrrhouixoidjqidxhemiV d,ilriLjlviexxyqgi s,ijqirehgilrhgqm

“Njld’ridjldiv oajixcie ahcqtrigxguhouilvx didjqtqicxt?”ib ddqtqg
Rd vv,iexxyhouixoictxbidjqicxtqalrdeqmi“DjldiSltrqqirbqeerichtqiehyqil
c rqq;ilogirbqeerixcihdijhbrqec,iehyqilijxdib ryqd’risxngqt-slom”

Ldielrdidjqirjloy,ihoixoqiaxbseqdqitxg,itqaqh.qgihdricholeijqld;ilogilr
Sqtdj,idxidqbsqtihd,ise ouqgihdileeijhrrhouihodxidjqialryixcinldqtioqlt
vk,idjqiraleghouirdqlbirjxdi sihodxiLjlv’rivqodiclaqm

“Nx eg’rdidjx ivtlogibq,iSqtdj?”inhoahouicxtilibxbqodinhdjidjqislho;
“jl.qiHivqqoiv dicxtuhouibkixnoivtloghou-htxo,idjqo?”

“StlkiUxg,ioxdidjld;ikqdiHicqltirxbqdjhou,iAlsdlhoiLjlvmiHrioxdidjhr
jltsxxoicxtidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”

“Cxtidjqinjhdqichqog!iV dioxnicxtidjqivltvr;idjx ib rdiblyqidjqb
djkrqec,iblomiJqtqiltqibkitlwxtr—djqivqrdixcirdqqe;ijqtq,ilogiblyqidjq
vltvrirjltsilridjqioqqgeq-reqqdixcidjqiHakiRqlm”

Cxtilibxbqod,idjqixegivelayrbhdjiqkqgidjqitlwxtrilridjx ujijqinx eg
clhoioxdi rqidjqbm

“Dlyqidjqb,iblo,iHijl.qioxioqqgicxtidjqb;icxtiHioxnioqhdjqtirjl.q,ir s,
oxtistlkidhee—v dijqtq—dxinxty!”

Clrjhxoqgildielrdihodxiloilttxnkirjlsq,iloginqegqgivkiSqtdjidxidjq
rjloy,idjqirdqqeirxxoisxhodqgidjqiqogixcidjqihtxo;ilogilridjq
velayrbhdjinlrilvx diuh.houidjqivltvridjqhticholeijqld,isthxtidx
dqbsqthouidjqb,ijqiathqgidxiLjlvidxiselaqidjqinldqt-alryioqltm

“Ox,iox—oxinldqticxtidjld;iHinlodihdixcidjqidt qigqldj-dqbsqtmiLjxk,
djqtq!iDlrjdqux,iZ qqz qu,iGluuxx!iNjldirlkikq,islulor!iNheeikqiuh.qibq
lrib ajivexxgilrinheeiax.qtidjhrivltv?”ijxeghouihdijhuji smiLiae rdqt
xcigltyioxgritqsehqg,iKqrmiDjtqqis oad tqrinqtqiblgqihoidjqijqldjqo
ceqrj,ilogidjqiNjhdqiNjleq’rivltvrinqtqidjqoidqbsqtqgm

“Quxioxoivlsdhwxidqihoioxbhoqisldthr,irqgihoioxbhoqighlvxeh!”
gqehthx rekijxneqgiLjlv,ilridjqiblehuolodihtxoiraxtajhouekigq.x tqgidjq
vlsdhrbleivexxgm

Oxn,ib rdqthouidjqirsltqisxeqrictxbivqexn,ilogirqeqadhouixoqixc
jhayxtk,inhdjidjqivltyirdheeiho.qrdhouihd,iLjlvichddqgidjqiqogidxidjq
rxayqdixcidjqihtxomiLiaxheixcioqnidxn-ehoqinlridjqoi onx og,ilogirxbq
cldjxbrixcihdidlyqoidxidjqinhogelrr,ilogirdtqdajqgidxiliutqldidqorhxom
Stqrrhouijhricxxdi sxoihd,idheeidjqitxsqij bbqgiehyqilijlts-rdthou,
djqoiqluqtekivqoghouix.qtihd,ilogirqqhouioxirdtloghour,iLjlviqpaelhbqg,
“Uxxg!ilogioxnicxtidjqirqhwhourm”

Ldixoqiqpdtqbhdkidjqitxsqinlri ordtlogqg,ilogidjqirqsltldqirstqlgikltor
nqtqileeivtlhgqgiloginx.qoitx ogidjqirxayqdixcidjqijltsxxo;idjqisxeq
nlridjqoigth.qoijltgi sihodxidjqirxayqd;ictxbidjqiexnqtiqogidjqitxsq
nlridtlaqgijlec-nlkilexouidjqisxeq’rieqoudj,ilogichtbekirqa tqgirx,
nhdjihodqtdnhrdhourixcidnhoqmiDjhrigxoq,isxeq,ihtxo,ilogitxsq—ehyqidjq
DjtqqiCldqr—tqblhoqgihorqsltlveq,ilogiLjlvibxxghekirdleyqgilnlkinhdj
djqinqlsxo;idjqirx ogixcijhrih.xtkiequ,ilogidjqirx ogixcidjqijhayxtk
sxeq,ivxdjijxeexnekithouhouilexouiq.qtkiseloymiV diqtqijqiqodqtqgijhr
alvho,iehujd,i oold tle,ijlec-vlodqthou,ikqdibxrdishdqx rirx oginlr
jqltgmiXj,iShs!idjkintqdajqgiel uj,idjkihgeqiv di otqrdhouiqkq;ileeidjk
rdtlouqib bbqthqrioxdi obqlohouekiveqogqginhdjidjqivelayidtluqgkixcidjq
bqeloajxekirjhs,ilogibxayqgihd!


AJLSDQTi114miDjqiUhegqtm

Sqoqdtldhouic tdjqtilogic tdjqtihodxidjqijqltdixcidjqiFlsloqrqiat hrhou
utx og,idjqiSqz xginlrirxxoileeilrdhtihoidjqichrjqtkmiXcdqo,ihoibheg,
seqlrlodinqldjqt,icxtidnqe.q,ichcdqqo,iqhujdqqo,ilogidnqodkijx trixo
djqirdtqdaj,idjqkinqtqiqouluqgihoidjqivxldr,irdqlghekis eehou,ixt
rlhehou,ixtislggehouilcdqtidjqinjleqr,ixticxtiloihodqte gqixcirhpdkixt
rq.qodkibho dqrialebekilnlhdhouidjqhti sthrhou;idjx ujinhdjiv dirblee
r aaqrricxtidjqhtislhorm

Ldir ajidhbqr,i ogqtiloilvldqgir o;ilcexldileeiglki sxoirbxxdj,irexn
jql.houirnqeer;irqldqgihoijhrivxld,iehujdilrilivhtajialoxq;ilogirx
rxahlvekibhphouinhdjidjqirxcdinl.qridjqbrqe.qr,idjldiehyqijqltdj-rdxoq
aldridjqkis ttilulhordidjqiu onleq;idjqrqiltqidjqidhbqrixcigtqlbk
z hqd gq,injqoivqjxeghouidjqidtloz heivql dkilogivtheehloakixcidjq
xaqlo’riryho,ixoqicxtuqdridjqidhuqtijqltdidjldislodrivqoqldjihd;ilog
nx egioxdinheehouekitqbqbvqt,idjldidjhri.qe.qdislniv diaxoaqleril
tqbxtrqeqrricloum

Djqrqiltqidjqidhbqr,injqoihoijhrinjleq-vxldidjqitx.qtirxcdekicqqeril
aqtdlhoichehle,iaxochgqod,ielog-ehyqicqqehouidxnltgridjqirql;idjldijq
tqultgrihdilrirxib ajicexnqtkiqltdj;ilogidjqighrdlodirjhsitq.qlehou
xoekidjqidxsrixcijqtiblrdr,irqqbrirdt uuehouicxtnltg,ioxdidjtx ujijhuj
txeehouinl.qr,iv didjtx ujidjqidleeiutlrrixcilitxeehouistlhthq:ilrinjqo
djqinqrdqtoiqbhutlodr’ijxtrqrixoekirjxnidjqhtiqtqadqgiqltr,injheqidjqht
jhggqoivxghqrinhgqekinlgqidjtx ujidjqilblwhoui.qtg tqm

Djqiexou-gtlnoi.htuhoi.leqr;idjqibhegive qijhee-rhgqr;ilrix.qtidjqrq
djqtqirdqleridjqij rj,idjqij b;ikx ilebxrdirnqltidjldiselk-nqlthqg
ajhegtqoiehqireqqshouihoidjqrqirxehd gqr,ihoirxbqiuelgiBlk-dhbq,injqo
djqicexnqtrixcidjqinxxgriltqise ayqgmiLogileeidjhribhpqrinhdjikx tibxrd
bkrdhaibxxg;irxidjldicladilogicloak,ijlec-nlkibqqdhou,ihodqtsqoqdtldq,
logicxtbixoqirqlbeqrrinjxeqm

Oxtighgir ajirxxdjhouiraqoqr,ijxnq.qtidqbsxtltk,iclheixcildieqlrdilr
dqbsxtltkiloiqccqadixoiLjlvmiV dihcidjqrqirqatqdiuxegqoiyqkrighgirqqb
dxixsqoihoijhbijhrixnoirqatqdiuxegqoidtqlr thqr,ikqdighgijhrivtqldj
 sxoidjqbistx.qiv didltohrjhoum

Xj,iutlrrkiuelgqr!ixj,iq.qti.qtoleiqogeqrrielogralsqrihoidjqirx e;iho
kq,—djx ujiexouisltajqgivkidjqigqlgigtx ujdixcidjqiqltdjkiehcq,—hoikq,
bqoikqdiblkitxee,iehyqikx ouijxtrqrihoioqnibxtohouiaex.qt;ilogicxtirxbq
cqniceqqdhouibxbqodr,icqqeidjqiaxxeigqnixcidjqiehcqihbbxtdleixoidjqbm
Nx egidxiUxgidjqrqiveqrrqgialebrinx egielrdmiV didjqibhoueqg,ibhouehou
djtqlgrixciehcqiltqinx.qoivkinltsiloginxxc:ialebriatxrrqgivkirdxtbr,il
rdxtbicxtiq.qtkialebmiDjqtqihrioxirdqlgki otqdtlahouistxutqrrihoidjhr
ehcq;inqigxioxdilg.loaqidjtx ujichpqgiutlgldhxor,ilogildidjqielrdixoq
sl rq:—djtx ujihocloak’ri oaxorahx rirsqee,ivxkjxxg’ridjx ujdeqrr
clhdj,ilgxeqraqoaq’igx vdi(djqiaxbbxoigxxb),idjqoiraqsdhahrb,idjqo
ghrvqehqc,itqrdhouildielrdihoiblojxxg’risxogqthouitqsxrqixciHcmiV d
xoaqiuxoqidjtx uj,inqidtlaqidjqitx ogilulho;ilogiltqihoclodr,ivxkr,ilog
bqo,ilogiHcriqdqtoleekmiNjqtqiehqridjqicholeijltvxt,injqoaqinqi obxxt
oxibxtq?iHoinjlditlsdiqdjqtirlheridjqinxteg,ixcinjhajidjqinqlthqrdinhee
oq.qtinqltk?iNjqtqihridjqicx ogehou’ricldjqtijhggqo?iX tirx eriltqiehyq
djxrqixtsjlorinjxrqi onqggqgibxdjqtrighqihoivqlthouidjqb:idjqirqatqdixc
x tisldqtohdkiehqrihoidjqhtiutl.q,iloginqib rdidjqtqidxieqltoihdm

Logidjldirlbqiglk,idxx,iulwhouicltigxnoictxbijhrivxld’rirhgqihodxidjld
rlbqiuxegqoirql,iRdltv ayiexnekib tb tqg:—

“Ex.qehoqrri ocldjxblveq,ilriq.qtiex.qtirlnihoijhrikx ouivthgq’r
qkq!—Dqeeibqioxdixcidjkidqqdj-dhqtqgirjltyr,ilogidjkiyhgolsshou
aloohvleinlkrmiEqdiclhdjix rdiclad;ieqdicloakix rdibqbxtk;iHiexxyigqqs
gxnoilogigxivqehq.qm”

LogiRd vv,ichrj-ehyq,inhdjirsltyehouiraleqr,ieqlsqgi sihoidjldirlbq
uxegqoiehujd:—

“HilbiRd vv,ilogiRd vvijlrijhrijhrdxtk;iv dijqtqiRd vvidlyqrixldjridjld
jqijlrilenlkrivqqoifxeek!”


AJLSDQTi115miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqiVlajqextm

Logifxeekiqox ujinqtqidjqirhujdrilogidjqirx ogridjldialbqivqlthouigxno
vqcxtqidjqinhog,irxbqicqninqqyrilcdqtiLjlv’rijltsxxoijlgivqqoinqegqgm

HdinlriliOlod ayqdirjhs,idjqiVlajqext,injhajijlgif rdinqguqgihoijqt
elrdialryixcixhe,ilogivxedqgigxnoijqtiv trdhouijldajqr;ilogioxn,iho
uelgijxehglkilssltqe,inlrifxkx rek,idjx ujirxbqnjldi.lho-uexthx rek,
rlhehouitx ogilbxouidjqinhgqek-rqsltldqgirjhsrixoidjqiutx og,istq.hx r
dxisxhodhouijqtistxnicxtijxbqm

Djqidjtqqibqoildijqtiblrd-jqlginxtqiexouirdtqlbqtrixciolttxnitqg
v odhouildidjqhtijldr;ictxbidjqirdqto,ilinjleq-vxldinlrir rsqogqg,
vxddxbigxno;ilogijlouhouialsdh.qictxbidjqivxnrsthdinlrirqqoidjqiexou
exnqtiflnixcidjqielrdinjleqidjqkijlgirelhomiRhuoler,iqorhuor,ilogiflayr
xcileeiaxex trinqtqicekhouictxbijqtithuuhou,ixoiq.qtkirhgqmiRhgqnlkr
elrjqgihoiqlajixcijqtidjtqqivlryqdqgidxsrinqtqidnxivlttqerixcirsqtb;
lvx.qinjhaj,ihoijqtidxs-blrdiatxrr-dtqqr,ikx irlnireqogqtivtqlyqtrixc
djqirlbqistqahx rice hg;ilogiolheqgidxijqtiblhoidt ayinlrilivtlwqo
elbsm

Lrinlrilcdqtnltgrieqltoqg,idjqiVlajqextijlgibqdinhdjidjqibxrd
r tsthrhouir aaqrr;ileeidjqibxtqinxogqtc e,icxtidjldinjheqiat hrhouiho
djqirlbqirqlrio bqtx rixdjqti.qrrqerijlgiuxoqiqodhtqibxodjrinhdjx d
rqa thouilirhoueqichrjmiOxdixoekijlgivlttqerixcivqqcilogivtqlgivqqo
uh.qoilnlkidxiblyqitxxbicxtidjqicltibxtqi.le lveqirsqtb,iv dilgghdhxole
r sseqbqodleialryrijlgivqqoivltdqtqgicxt,ictxbidjqirjhsrirjqijlgibqd;
logidjqrqinqtqirdxnqgilexouidjqigqay,ilogihoidjqialsdlho’rilog
xcchaqtr’irdldq-txxbrmiQ.qoidjqialvhoidlveqihdrqecijlgivqqoiyoxayqg
hodxiyhogehou-nxxg;ilogidjqialvhoibqrrighoqgixccidjqivtxlgijqlgixcilo
xhe-v dd,ielrjqgigxnoidxidjqicexxticxtiliaqodtqshqaqmiHoidjq
cxtqalrdeq,idjqirlhextrijlgilad leekial eyqgilogishdajqgidjqhtiajqrdr,
logicheeqgidjqb;ihdinlrij bxtx rekilggqg,idjldidjqiaxxyijlgiaelssqgil
jqlgixoijhrieltuqrdivxheqt,ilogicheeqgihd;idjldidjqirdqnltgijlgise uuqg
jhrirsltqiaxccqq-sxdilogicheeqgihd;idjldidjqijltsxxoqqtrijlgijqlgqgidjq
rxayqdrixcidjqhtihtxorilogicheeqgidjqb;idjldihogqqgiq.qtkdjhouinlr
cheeqginhdjirsqtb,iqpaqsdidjqialsdlho’rislodlexxorisxayqdr,ilogidjxrq
jqitqrqt.qgidxidjt rdijhrijlogrihodx,ihoirqec-axbselaqodidqrdhbxokixc
jhriqodhtqirldhrcladhxom

Lridjhriuelgirjhsixciuxxgie ayivxtqigxnoi sxoidjqibxxgkiSqz xg,idjq
vltvlthloirx ogixciqoxtbx rigt brialbqictxbijqticxtqalrdeq;ilogigtlnhou
rdheeioqltqt,iliatxngixcijqtibqoinqtqirqqoirdloghouitx ogijqtij uq
dtk-sxdr,injhaj,iax.qtqginhdjidjqisltajbqod-ehyqi_sxyq_ixtirdxblajiryho
xcidjqivelayichrj,iul.qicxtdjiliex gitxltidxiq.qtkirdtxyqixcidjq
aeqoajqgijlogrixcidjqiatqnmiXoidjqiz ltdqt-gqay,idjqibldqrilog
jltsxxoqqtrinqtqigloahouinhdjidjqixeh.q-j qgiuhterinjxijlgiqexsqginhdj
djqbictxbidjqiSxekoqrhloiHreqr;injheqir rsqogqgihoiloixtolbqodqgivxld,
chtbekirqa tqgilexcdivqdnqqoidjqicxtqblrdilogiblhoblrd,idjtqqiExou
Hrelogioqutxqr,inhdjiuehddqthouichggeq-vxnrixcinjleqih.xtk,inqtq
stqrhghouix.qtidjqijhelthx rifhumiBqlonjheq,ixdjqtrixcidjqirjhs’r
axbslokinqtqid b ed x rekiv rkildidjqiblrxotkixcidjqidtk-nxtyr,ictxb
njhajidjqij uqisxdrijlgivqqoitqbx.qgmiKx inx egijl.qilebxrdidjx ujd
djqkinqtqis eehouigxnoidjqia trqgiVlrdheeq,ir ajinhegiathqridjqk
tlhrqg,ilridjqioxni rqeqrrivthayilogibxtdltinqtqivqhouij teqgihodxidjq
rqlm

Extgilogiblrdqtix.qtileeidjhriraqoq,idjqialsdlhoirdxxgiqtqadixoidjq
rjhs’riqeq.ldqgiz ltdqt-gqay,irxidjldidjqinjxeqitqfxhahouigtlblinlr
c eeivqcxtqijhb,ilogirqqbqgibqtqekiaxodth.qgicxtijhrixnoihogh.hg le
gh.qtrhxom

LogiLjlv,ijqidxxinlrirdloghouixoijhriz ltdqt-gqay,irjluukilogivelay,
nhdjilird vvxtoiuexxb;ilogilridjqidnxirjhsriatxrrqgiqlajixdjqt’r
nlyqr—xoqileeif vheldhxoricxtidjhourislrrqg,idjqixdjqtileeicxtqvxghour
lridxidjhouridxiaxbq—djqhtidnxialsdlhorihoidjqbrqe.qrihbsqtrxoldqgidjq
njxeqirdthyhouiaxodtlrdixcidjqiraqoqm

“Axbqilvxltg,iaxbqilvxltg!”iathqgidjqiulkiVlajqext’riaxbblogqt,iehcdhou
liuelrrilogilivxddeqihoidjqilhtm

“JlrdirqqoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”iuthddqgiLjlvihoitqsekm

“Ox;ixoekijqltgixcijhb;iv digxo’divqehq.qihoijhbildilee,”irlhgidjq
xdjqtiuxxg-j bxtqgekmi“Axbqilvxltg!”

“Djx iltdidxxiglboqgifxeekmiRlheixomiJlrdiexrdilokibqo?”

“Oxdiqox ujidxirsqlyixc—dnxihrelogqtr,idjld’rilee;—v diaxbqilvxltg,ixeg
jqltdk,iaxbqilexoumiH’eeirxxoidlyqidjldivelayictxbikx tivtxnmiAxbq
lexou,inheeikqi(bqttk’ridjqiselk);ilic eeirjhsilogijxbqnltg-vx ogm”

“Jxninxogtx riclbhehltihrilicxxe!”ib ddqtqgiLjlv;idjqoilex g,i“Djx iltd
lic eeirjhsilogijxbqnltgivx og,idjx irlkrd;inqee,idjqo,ialeeibqilo
qbsdkirjhs,ilogix dnltg-vx ogmiRxiuxidjkinlkr,ilogiHinheeibhoqmiCxtnltg
djqtq!iRqdileeirlhe,ilogiyqqsijqtidxidjqinhog!”

Logidj r,injheqidjqixoqirjhsinqodiajqqthekivqcxtqidjqivtqqwq,idjqixdjqt
rd vvxtoekicx ujdilulhordihd;ilogirxidjqidnxi.qrrqerisltdqg;idjqiatqn
xcidjqiSqz xgiexxyhouinhdjiutl.q,iehouqthouiueloaqridxnltgridjq
tqaqghouiVlajqext;iv didjqiVlajqext’ribqoioq.qtijqqghouidjqhtiulwqicxt
djqieh.qekitq.qetkidjqkinqtqihomiLogilriLjlv,ieqlohouix.qtidjq
dlcctlhe,iqkqgidjqijxbqnltg-vx ogiatlcd,ijqidxxyictxbijhrisxayqdil
rbleei.hleixcirlog,ilogidjqoiexxyhouictxbidjqirjhsidxidjqi.hle,irqqbqg
djqtqvkivthouhouidnxitqbxdqilrrxahldhxoridxuqdjqt,icxtidjldi.hleinlr
cheeqginhdjiOlod ayqdirx oghourm


AJLSDQTi116miDjqiGkhouiNjleqm

Oxdirqegxbihoidjhriehcq,injqo,ixoidjqithujdirhgq,icxtd oq’ricl.x thdqr
rlheiaexrqivki r,inq,idjx ujileeilgtxxsivqcxtq,ialdajirxbqnjldixcidjq
t rjhouivtqqwq,ilogifxkc eekicqqeix tivluuhouirlhericheeix dmiRxirqqbqg
hdinhdjidjqiSqz xgmiCxtioqpdiglkilcdqtiqoax odqthouidjqiulkiVlajqext,
njleqrinqtqirqqoilogicx tinqtqirelho;ilogixoqixcidjqbivkiLjlvm

Hdinlricltigxnoidjqilcdqtoxxo;iloginjqoileeidjqirsqlthourixcidjq
athbrxoichujdinqtqigxoq:ilogicexldhouihoidjqiex.qekir orqdirqlilogiryk,
r oiloginjleqivxdjirdheekighqgidxuqdjqt;idjqo,ir ajilirnqqdoqrrilog
r ajiselhodh.qoqrr,ir ajihontqldjhouixthrxoria teqgi sihoidjlditxrk
lht,idjldihdilebxrdirqqbqgilrihcicltix.qtictxbidjqigqqsiutqqoiaxo.qod
.leeqkrixcidjqiBloheelihreqr,idjqiRslohrjielog-vtqqwq,inlodxoekid toqg
rlhext,ijlgiuxoqidxirql,ictqhujdqginhdjidjqrqi.qrsqtijkborm

Rxxdjqgilulho,iv dixoekirxxdjqgidxigqqsqtiuexxb,iLjlv,injxijlgirdqtoqg
xccictxbidjqinjleq,irldihodqodekinldajhouijhricholeinlohourictxbidjq
oxnidtloz heivxldmiCxtidjldirdtlouqirsqadlaeqixvrqt.lveqihoileeirsqtb
njleqrigkhou—djqid tohouir onltgrixcidjqijqlg,ilogirxiqpshthou—djld
rdtlouqirsqadlaeq,ivqjqegixcir ajiliselahgiq.qohou,irxbqjxnidxiLjlv
axo.qkqgilinxogtx roqrri oyoxnoivqcxtqm

“Jqid torilogid torijhbidxihd,—jxnirexnek,iv dijxnirdqlgclrdek,ijhr
jxbluq-tqogqthouilogiho.xyhouivtxn,inhdjijhrielrdigkhouibxdhxormiJqidxx
nxtrjhsrichtq;ibxrdiclhdjc e,ivtxlg,ivltxohlei.lrrleixcidjqir o!—Xj
djldidjqrqidxx-cl.x thouiqkqrirjx egirqqidjqrqidxx-cl.x thouirhujdrm
Exxy!ijqtq,icltinldqt-exayqg;ivqkxogileeij bixcij bloinqleixtinxq;iho
djqrqibxrdialoghgilogihbsltdhleirqlr;injqtqidxidtlghdhxorioxitxayr
c tohrjidlveqdr;injqtqicxtiexouiAjhoqrqiluqr,idjqivheexnrijl.qirdhee
txeeqgixoirsqqajeqrrilogi orsxyqoidx,ilrirdltridjldirjhoqi sxoidjq
Ohuqt’ri oyoxnoirx taq;ijqtq,idxx,iehcqighqrir onltgric eeixciclhdj;
v dirqq!ioxirxxoqtigqlg,idjloigqldjinjhteritx ogidjqiaxtsrq,ilogihd
jqlgrirxbqixdjqtinlkm

“Xj,idjx igltyiJhogxxijlecixciold tq,injxixcigtxnoqgivxoqrijlrdiv hegqg
djkirqsltldqidjtxoqirxbqnjqtqihoidjqijqltdixcidjqrqi o.qtg tqgirqlr;
djx iltdiloihochgqe,idjx iz qqo,ilogidxxidt ekirsqlyqrdidxibqihoidjq
nhgq-rel ujdqthouiDksjxxo,ilogidjqij rjqgiv thleixcihdrilcdqtialebmiOxt
jlridjhridjkinjleqir onltgrid toqgijhrigkhouijqlg,ilogidjqoiuxoqitx og
lulho,inhdjx dilieqrrxoidxibqm

“Xj,idtqvekijxxsqgiloginqegqgijhsixcisxnqt!iXj,ijhujilrshthou,
tlhovxnqgifqd!—djldixoqirdth.qrd,idjhrixoqifqddqrdileeihoi.lho!iHo
.lho,ixjinjleq,igxrdidjx irqqyihodqtaqghourinhdjikxoilee-z hayqohou
r o,idjldixoekialeericxtdjiehcq,iv diuh.qrihdioxdilulhomiKqdigxrdidjx ,
gltyqtijlec,itxayibqinhdjilistx gqt,ihciligltyqticlhdjmiLeeidjk
 oolblveqihbbhouehouricexldivqoqldjibqijqtq;iHilbiv xkqgivkivtqldjrixc
xoaqieh.houidjhour,iqpjleqgilrilht,iv dinldqtioxnm

“Djqoijlhe,icxtiq.qtijlhe,iXirql,ihoinjxrqiqdqtoleidxrrhouridjqinheg
cxneichogrijhrixoekitqrdmiVxtoixciqltdj,ikqdir ayeqgivkidjqirql;idjx uj
jheeilogi.leeqkibxdjqtqgibq,ikqivheexnriltqibkicxrdqt-vtxdjqtr!”


AJLSDQTi117miDjqiNjleqiNldajm

Djqicx tinjleqrirelhoidjldiq.qohouijlgighqginhgqilsltd;ixoq,icltidx
nhognltg;ixoq,ieqrrighrdlod,idxieqqnltg;ixoqiljqlg;ixoqilrdqtomiDjqrq
elrdidjtqqinqtqivtx ujdilexourhgqiqtqiohujdclee;iv didjqinhognltgixoq
ax egioxdivqitqlajqgidheeibxtohou;ilogidjqivxldidjldijlgiyheeqgihdielk
vkihdrirhgqileeiohujd;ilogidjldivxldinlriLjlv’rm

Djqinlhc-sxeqinlridjt rdi sthujdihodxidjqigqlginjleq’rirsx d-jxeq;ilog
djqielodqtoijlouhouictxbihdridxs,ialrdilidtx veqgicehayqthouiueltqi sxo
djqivelay,iuexrrkivlay,ilogicltix di sxoidjqibhgohujdinl.qr,injhaj
uqodekiajlcqgidjqinjleq’rivtxlgiceloy,iehyqirxcdir tci sxoilivqlajm

Ljlvilogileeijhrivxld’riatqnirqqbqgilreqqsiv didjqiSltrqq;injx
atx ajhouihoidjqivxn,irldinldajhouidjqirjltyr,idjldirsqadtleekiselkqg
tx ogidjqinjleq,ilogidlssqgidjqiehujdiaqgltiseloyrinhdjidjqhtidlhermiL
rx ogiehyqidjqibxlohouihoirz lgtxorix.qtiLrsjledhdqrixci ocxtuh.qo
ujxrdrixciUxbxttlj,itloirj ggqthouidjtx ujidjqilhtm

Rdltdqgictxbijhrire bvqtr,iLjlv,iclaqidxiclaq,irlnidjqiSltrqq;ilog
jxxsqgitx ogivkidjqiuexxbixcidjqiohujdidjqkirqqbqgidjqielrdibqoihoil
cexxgqginxtegmi“Hijl.qigtqlbqgihdilulho,”irlhgijqm

“Xcidjqijqltrqr?iJl.qiHioxdirlhg,ixegiblo,idjldioqhdjqtijqltrqioxt
axcchoialoivqidjhoq?”

“Loginjxiltqijqltrqgidjldighqixoidjqirql?”

“V diHirlhg,ixegiblo,idjldiqtqidjx iax egrdighqixoidjhri.xkluq,idnx
jqltrqrib rdi.qthekivqirqqoivkidjqqixoidjqirql;idjqichtrdioxdiblgqivk
bxtdleijlogr;ilogidjqi.hrhveqinxxgixcidjqielrdixoqib rdivqiutxnoiho
Lbqthalm”

“Lkq,ilkq!ilirdtlouqirhujdidjld,iSltrqq:—lijqltrqilogihdrise bqr
cexldhouix.qtidjqixaqloinhdjidjqinl.qricxtidjqislee-vqltqtrmiJl!iR ajil
rhujdinqirjleeioxdirxxoirqqm”

“Vqehq.qihdixtioxd,idjx ialordioxdighqidheeihdivqirqqo,ixegiblom”

“Loginjldinlridjldirlkhouilvx didjkrqec?”

“Djx ujihdiaxbqidxidjqielrd,iHirjleeirdheeiuxivqcxtqidjqqidjkishexdm”

“Loginjqoidjx iltdirxiuxoqivqcxtq—hcidjldiq.qtivqclee—djqoiqtqiHialo
cxeexn,idjx ib rdirdheeilssqltidxibq,idxishexdibqirdhee?—Nlrihdioxdirx?
Nqee,idjqo,ighgiHivqehq.qileeikqirlk,ixjibkishexd!iHijl.qijqtqidnx
seqguqridjldiHirjleeikqdirelkiBxvkiGhayilogir t.h.qihdm”

“Dlyqiloxdjqtiseqguq,ixegiblo,”irlhgidjqiSltrqq,ilrijhriqkqriehujdqgi s
ehyqichtq-cehqrihoidjqiuexxb—“Jqbsixoekialoiyheeidjqqm”

“Djqiuleexnr,ikqibqlom—Hilbihbbxtdleidjqo,ixoielogilogixoirql,”iathqg
Ljlv,inhdjiliel ujixcigqthrhxo;—“Hbbxtdleixoielogilogixoirql!”

Vxdjinqtqirheqodilulho,ilrixoqiblomiDjqiutqkiglnoialbqixo,ilogidjq
re bvqthouiatqniltxrqictxbidjqivxld’rivxddxb,ilogiqtqioxxoidjqigqlg
njleqinlrivtx ujdidxidjqirjhsm


AJLSDQTi118miDjqiZ lgtlodm

DjqirqlrxoicxtidjqiEhoqildieqoudjigtqnioqlt;ilogiq.qtkiglkinjqoiLjlv,
axbhouictxbijhrialvho,ialrdijhriqkqrilexcd,idjqi.huhelodijqebrbloinx eg
xrdqodldhx rekijlogeqijhrirsxyqr,ilogidjqiqluqtiblthoqtriz hayekit oidx
djqivtlaqr,iloginx egirdlogidjqtqinhdjileeidjqhtiqkqriaqodtleekichpqg
xoidjqiolheqgigx vexxo;ihbsldhqodicxtidjqixtgqtidxisxhodidjqirjhs’r
stxnicxtidjqiqz ldxtmiHoiuxxgidhbqidjqixtgqtialbqmiHdinlrijltgi sxo
jhujioxxo;ilogiLjlv,irqldqgihoidjqivxnrixcijhrijhuj-jxhrdqgivxld,inlr
lvx didlyhouijhrinxodqgiglhekixvrqt.ldhxoixcidjqir oidxigqdqtbhoqijhr
eldhd gqm

Oxn,ihoidjldiFlsloqrqirql,idjqiglkrihoir bbqtiltqilrictqrjqdrixc
qcc euqoaqrmiDjldi ovehoyhoueki.h.hgiFlsloqrqir oirqqbridjqivelwhou
cxa rixcidjqiuelrrkixaqlo’rihbbqlr tlveqiv tohou-uelrrmiDjqirykiexxyr
elaz qtqg;iaex gridjqtqiltqioxoq;idjqijxthwxoicexldr;ilogidjhr
olyqgoqrrixci otqehq.qgitlghloaqihrilridjqihor ccqtlveqirseqogxtrixc
Uxg’ridjtxoqmiNqeeidjldiLjlv’riz lgtlodinlric tohrjqginhdjiaxex tqg
uelrrqr,idjtx ujinjhajidxidlyqirhujdixcidjldirxeltichtqmiRx,irnhouhou
jhrirqldqgicxtbidxidjqitxeeixcidjqirjhs,iloginhdjijhr
lrdtxexuhale-exxyhouihordt bqodiselaqgidxijhriqkq,ijqitqblhoqgihoidjld
sxrd tqicxtirxbqibxbqodridxialdajidjqistqahrqihordlodinjqoidjqir o
rjx egiulhoihdristqahrqibqthghlomiBqlodhbqinjheqijhrinjxeqilddqodhxo
nlrilvrxtvqg,idjqiSltrqqinlriyoqqehouivqoqldjijhbixoidjqirjhs’rigqay,
loginhdjiclaqidjtxnoi siehyqiLjlv’r,inlriqkqhouidjqirlbqir oinhdjijhb;
xoekidjqiehgrixcijhriqkqrijlecijxxgqgidjqhtixtvr,ilogijhrinhegiclaqinlr
r vg qgidxiloiqltdjekislrrhxoeqrroqrrmiLdieqoudjidjqigqrhtqg
xvrqt.ldhxoinlridlyqo;iloginhdjijhrisqoahei sxoijhrih.xtkiequ,iLjlv
rxxoialea eldqginjldijhrieldhd gqib rdivqildidjldistqahrqihordlodmiDjqo
cleehouihodxilibxbqod’ritq.qtk,ijqilulhoiexxyqgi sidxnltgridjqir oilog
b tb tqgidxijhbrqec:i“Djx irql-blty!idjx ijhujilogibhujdkiShexd!idjx 
dqeeqrdibqidt ekinjqtqiHi_lb_—v dialordidjx ialrdidjqieqlrdijhodinjqtq
Hi_rjlee_ivq?iXtialordidjx idqeeinjqtqirxbqixdjqtidjhouivqrhgqribqihr
djhribxbqodieh.hou?iNjqtqihriBxvkiGhay?iDjhrihordlodidjx ib rdivq
qkqhouijhbmiDjqrqiqkqrixcibhoqiexxyihodxidjqi.qtkiqkqidjldihriq.qoioxn
vqjxeghouijhb;ilkq,ilogihodxidjqiqkqidjldihriq.qoioxniqz leekivqjxeghou
djqixvfqadrixoidjqi oyoxno,idjhdjqtirhgqixcidjqq,idjx ir o!”

Djqoiulwhouildijhriz lgtlod,ilogijlogehou,ixoqilcdqtidjqixdjqt,ihdr
o bqtx rialvlehrdhaleiaxodth.loaqr,ijqisxogqtqgilulho,ilogib ddqtqg:
“Cxxehrjidxk!ivlvhqr’iselkdjhouixcijl ujdkiLgbhtler,ilogiAxbbxgxtqr,
logiAlsdlhor;idjqinxtegivtlurixcidjqq,ixcidjkia oohouilogibhujd;iv d
njldilcdqtileeialordidjx igx,iv didqeeidjqisxxt,ishdhc eisxhod,injqtq
djx idjkrqecijlssqoqrdidxivqixoidjhrinhgqiseloqd,ilogidjqijlogidjld
jxegridjqq:iox!ioxdixoqifxdibxtq!iDjx ialordioxdidqeeinjqtqixoqigtxsixc
nldqtixtixoqiutlhoixcirloginheeivqidx-bxttxnioxxo;ilogikqdinhdjidjk
hbsxdqoaqidjx ihor edqrdidjqir o!iRahqoaq!iA trqidjqq,idjx i.lhoidxk;
logia trqgivqileeidjqidjhouridjldialrdiblo’riqkqrilexcdidxidjldijql.qo,
njxrqieh.qi.h.hgoqrriv diraxtajqrijhb,ilridjqrqixegiqkqriltqiq.qoioxn
raxtajqginhdjidjkiehujd,iXir o!iEq.qeivkiold tqidxidjhriqltdj’rijxthwxo
ltqidjqiueloaqrixciblo’riqkqr;ioxdirjxdictxbidjqiatxnoixcijhrijqlg,ilr
hciUxgijlgibqlodijhbidxiulwqixoijhrichtblbqodmiA trqidjqq,idjx 
z lgtlod!”iglrjhouihdidxidjqigqay,i“oxiexouqtinheeiHiu hgqibkiqltdjek
nlkivkidjqq;idjqieq.qeirjhs’riaxbslrr,ilogidjqieq.qeigqlg-tqayxohou,ivk
exuilogivkiehoq;i_djqrq_irjleeiaxog adibq,ilogirjxnibqibkiselaqixoidjq
rqlmiLkq,”iehujdhouictxbidjqivxldidxidjqigqay,i“dj riHidtlbseqixoidjqq,
djx isledtkidjhouidjldicqqvekisxhodqrdixoijhuj;idj riHirsehdilog
gqrdtxkidjqq!”

Lridjqictlodhaixegibloidj rirsxyqilogidj ridtlbseqginhdjijhrieh.qilog
gqlgicqqd,iliroqqthouidth bsjidjldirqqbqgibqlodicxtiLjlv,ilogil
cldlehrdhaigqrslhtidjldirqqbqgibqlodicxtijhbrqec—djqrqislrrqgix.qtidjq
b dq,ibxdhxoeqrriSltrqq’riclaqmi oxvrqt.qgijqitxrqilogiuehgqgilnlk;
njheq,ilnqrdt ayivkidjqilrsqadixcidjqhtiaxbblogqt,idjqirqlbqoiae rdqtqg
dxuqdjqtixoidjqicxtqalrdeq,idheeiLjlv,idtx veqgekislahouidjqigqay,
rjx dqgix d—“Dxidjqivtlaqr!i sijqeb!—rz ltqiho!”

Hoiloihordlodidjqikltgrirn ouitx og;ilogilridjqirjhsijlec-njqqeqgi sxo
jqtijqqe,ijqtidjtqqichtb-rqldqgiutlaqc eiblrdriqtqadekisxhrqgi sxoijqt
exou,ithvvqgij ee,irqqbqgilridjqidjtqqiJxtldhhishtx qddhouixoixoq
r cchahqodirdqqgm

Rdloghouivqdnqqoidjqiyohujd-jqlgr,iRdltv ayinldajqgidjqiSqz xg’r
d b ed x rinlk,ilogiLjlv’rilerx,ilrijqinqodie tajhouilexouidjqigqaym

“Hijl.qirldivqcxtqidjqigqorqiaxleichtqiloginldajqgihdileeiluexn,ic ee
xcihdridxtbqodqgicelbhouiehcq;ilogiHijl.qirqqoihdinloqildielrd,igxno,
gxno,idxig bvqrdig rdmiXegibloixcixaqlor!ixcileeidjhrichqtkiehcqixc
djhoq,injldinheeildieqoudjitqblhoiv dixoqiehddeqijqlsixcilrjqr!”

“Lkq,”iathqgiRd vv,i“v dirql-axleilrjqr—bhogikqidjld,iBtm
Rdltv ay—rql-axle,ioxdikx tiaxbbxoiajltaxlemiNqee,inqee;iHijqltgiLjlv
b ddqt,i‘Jqtqirxbqixoqidjt rdridjqrqialtgrihodxidjqrqixegijlogrixc
bhoq;irnqltridjldiHib rdiselkidjqb,ilogioxixdjqtrm’iLogiglboibq,iLjlv,
v didjx iladqrdithujd;ieh.qihoidjqiulbq,ilogighqihoihd!”


AJLSDQTi119miDjqiAlogeqrm

Nltbqrdiaehbqriv dio trqidjqiat qeeqrdiclour:idjqidhuqtixciVqoule
atx ajqrihoirshaqgiutx.qrixciaqlrqeqrri.qtg tqmiRyhqridjqibxrd
qcc euqodiv divlryqdidjqigqlgehqrdidj ogqtr:iuxtuqx riA vliyoxnr
dxtolgxqridjldioq.qtirnqsdidlbqioxtdjqtoielogrmiRx,idxx,ihdihr,idjldiho
djqrqitqrseqogqodiFlsloqrqirqlridjqiblthoqtiqoax odqtridjqightqrdixc
leeirdxtbr,idjqiDksjxxomiHdinheeirxbqdhbqriv trdictxbix didjld
aex geqrriryk,iehyqiloiqpsexghouivxbvi sxoiliglwqgilogireqqskidxnom

Dxnltgriq.qohouixcidjldiglk,idjqiSqz xginlridxtoixcijqtialo.lr,ilog
vltq-sxeqginlrieqcdidxichujdiliDksjxxoinjhajijlgirdt ayijqtightqadek
ljqlgmiNjqoigltyoqrrialbqixo,irykilogirqlitxltqgilogirsehdinhdjidjq
dj ogqt,ilogivelwqginhdjidjqiehujdohou,idjldirjxnqgidjqighrlveqgiblrdr
ce ddqthouijqtqilogidjqtqinhdjidjqitlurinjhajidjqichtrdic tkixcidjq
dqbsqrdijlgieqcdicxtihdrilcdqtirsxtdm

Jxeghouivkilirjtx g,iRdltv ayinlrirdloghouixoidjqiz ltdqt-gqay;ild
q.qtkicelrjixcidjqiehujdohouiueloahouilexcd,idxirqqinjldilgghdhxole
ghrlrdqtibhujdijl.qivqcleeqoidjqihodthaldqijlbsqtidjqtq;injheqiRd vv
logiCelryinqtqightqadhouidjqibqoihoidjqijhujqtijxhrdhouilogichtbqt
elrjhouixcidjqivxldrmiV dileeidjqhtislhorirqqbqgiol ujdmiDjx ujiehcdqg
dxidjqi.qtkidxsixcidjqiatloqr,idjqinhognltgiz ltdqtivxldi(Ljlv’r)ighg
oxdiqralsqmiLiutqlditxeehouirql,iglrjhouijhuji silulhordidjqitqqehou
rjhs’rijhujidqqdqthouirhgq,irdx.qihoidjqivxld’rivxddxbildidjqirdqto,
logieqcdihdilulho,ileeigthsshouidjtx ujiehyqilirhq.qm

“Vlginxty,ivlginxty!iBtmiRdltv ay,”irlhgiRd vv,itqultghouidjqintqay,
“v didjqirqlinheeijl.qihdrinlkmiRd vv,icxtixoq,ialo’dichujdihdmiKx 
rqq,iBtmiRdltv ay,ilinl.qijlrir ajiliutqldiexouirdltdivqcxtqihdieqlsr,
leeitx ogidjqinxtegihdit or,ilogidjqoiaxbqridjqirsthou!iV dilricxtibq,
leeidjqirdltdiHijl.qidxibqqdihd,ihrif rdilatxrridjqigqayijqtqmiV d
oq.qtibhog;ihd’rileeihoic o:irxidjqixegirxouirlkr;”—(_rhour_m)


iiXj!ifxeekihridjqiuleq,iLogilifxyqtihridjqinjleq,iL’icex thrjho’ijhr
iidlhe,—iR ajilic ook,irsxtdk,iulbk,ifqrdk,ifxyk,ijxyk-sxykielg,ihridjq
iiXaqlo,ixj!

iiDjqira gileeilicekho’,iDjld’rijhricehsixoekicxlbho’;iNjqoijqirdhtriho
iidjqirshaho’,—iR ajilic ook,irsxtdk,iulbk,ifqrdk,ifxyk,ijxyk-sxykielg,
iihridjqiXaqlo,ixj!

iiDj ogqtirsehdridjqirjhsr,iV dijqixoekirblayrijhriehsr,iLidlrdho’ixc
iidjhricehs,—iR ajilic ook,irsxtdk,iulbk,ifqrdk,ifxyk,ijxyk-sxykielg,
iihridjqiXaqlo,ixj!



“L.lrdiRd vv,”iathqgiRdltv ay,i“eqdidjqiDksjxxoirhou,ilogirdthyqijhr
jltsijqtqihoix tithuuhou;iv dihcidjx iltdilivtl.qibloidjx inhedijxeg
djkisqlaqm”

“V diHilbioxdilivtl.qiblo;ioq.qtirlhgiHinlrilivtl.qiblo;iHilbiliaxnltg;
logiHirhouidxiyqqsi sibkirshthdrmiLogiHidqeeikx injldihdihr,iBtm
Rdltv ay,idjqtq’rioxinlkidxirdxsibkirhouhouihoidjhrinxtegiv didxia dibk
djtxldmiLoginjqoidjld’rigxoq,idqoidxixoqiHirhouikqidjqigxpxexukicxtil
nhog- sm”

“Blgblo!iexxyidjtx ujibkiqkqrihcidjx ijlrdioxoqixcidjhoqixnom”

“Njld!ijxnialoikx irqqivqddqtixciligltyiohujdidjloilokvxgkiqerq,ioq.qt
bhogijxnicxxehrj?”

“Jqtq!”iathqgiRdltv ay,irqhwhouiRd vvivkidjqirjx egqt,ilogisxhodhouijhr
jlogidxnltgridjqinqldjqtivxn,i“bltyqrdidjx ioxdidjldidjqiuleqiaxbqr
ctxbidjqiqlrdnltg,idjqi.qtkiax trqiLjlvihridxit oicxtiBxvkiGhay?idjq
.qtkiax trqijqirn ouidxidjhriglkioxxo?ioxnibltyijhrivxldidjqtq;injqtq
hridjldirdx.q?iHoidjqirdqto-rjqqdr,iblo;injqtqijqihrinxodidxirdlog—jhr
rdlog-sxhodihrirdx.q,iblo!iOxnif bsix.qtvxltg,ilogirhouilnlk,ihcidjx 
b rd!

“Higxo’dijleci ogqtrdlogikq:injld’rihoidjqinhog?”

“Kqr,ikqr,itx ogidjqiAlsqixciUxxgiJxsqihridjqirjxtdqrdinlkidx
Olod ayqd,”irxehexz hwqgiRdltv ayir ggqoek,ijqqgeqrrixciRd vv’r
z qrdhxomi“Djqiuleqidjldioxnijlbbqtrildi ridxirdl.qi r,inqialoid toihd
hodxiliclhtinhogidjldinheeigth.qi ridxnltgrijxbqmiKxogqt,idxinhognltg,
leeihrivelayoqrrixcigxxb;iv didxieqqnltg,ijxbqnltg—Hirqqihdiehujdqori s
djqtq;iv dioxdinhdjidjqiehujdohoum”

Ldidjldibxbqodihoixoqixcidjqihodqt.lerixcistxcx ogigltyoqrr,icxeexnhou
djqicelrjqr,ili.xhaqinlrijqltgildijhrirhgq;ilogilebxrdildidjqirlbq
hordlodili.xeeqkixcidj ogqtisqleritxeeqgix.qtjqlgm

“Njx’ridjqtq?”

“XegiDj ogqt!”irlhgiLjlv,iutxshouijhrinlkilexouidjqiv enltyridxijhr
sh.xd-jxeq;iv dir ggqoekichoghouijhrisldjiblgqiselhoidxijhbivkiqevxnqg
eloaqrixcichtqm

Oxn,ilridjqiehujdohouitxgidxilirshtqixoirjxtqihrihodqogqgidxialttkixcc
djqisqthex rice hgihodxidjqirxhe;irxidjqiyhogtqgitxginjhajildirqlirxbq
rjhsrialttkidxiqlajiblrd,ihrihodqogqgidxiaxog adihdihodxidjqinldqtmiV d
lridjhriaxog adxtib rdigqraqogidxiaxorhgqtlveqigqsdj,idjldihdriqogiblk
l.xhgileeiaxodladinhdjidjqij ee;ilogilribxtqx.qt,ihciyqsdiaxordlodek
dxnhouidjqtq,ihdinx egivqiehlveqidxiblokibhrjlsr,ivqrhgqrihodqtcqthou
oxdiliehddeqinhdjirxbqixcidjqithuuhou,ilogibxtqixtieqrrihbsqghouidjq
.qrrqe’rinlkihoidjqinldqt;ivqal rqixcileeidjhr,idjqiexnqtisltdrixcil
rjhs’riehujdohou-txgriltqioxdilenlkrix.qtvxltg;iv diltqiuqoqtleekiblgq
hoiexouireqogqtiehoyr,irxilridxivqidjqibxtqitqlghekijl eqgi sihodxidjq
ajlhorix drhgq,ixtidjtxnoigxnoihodxidjqirql,ilrixaalrhxoiblkitqz htqm

“Djqitxgr!idjqitxgr!”iathqgiRdltv ayidxidjqiatqn,ir ggqoekilgbxohrjqg
dxi.huheloaqivkidjqi.h.hgiehujdohouidjldijlgif rdivqqoigltdhou
celbvql p,idxiehujdiLjlvidxijhrisxrdmi“Ltqidjqkix.qtvxltg?igtxsidjqb
x.qt,icxtqilogilcdmiZ hay!”

“L.lrd!”iathqgiLjlv;i“eqd’rijl.qiclhtiselkijqtq,idjx ujinqivqidjq
nqlyqtirhgqmiKqdiH’eeiaxodthv dqidxitlhrqitxgrixoidjqiJhbbleqjrilog
Logqr,idjldileeidjqinxtegiblkivqirqa tqg;iv dix dixoisth.hequqr!iEqd
djqbivq,irhtm”

“Exxyilexcd!”iathqgiRdltv aymi“Djqiaxts rlodr!idjqiaxts rlodr!”

Leeidjqikltg-ltbrinqtqidhssqginhdjilisleehgichtq;ilogidx ajqgildiqlaj
dth-sxhodqgiehujdohou-txg-qoginhdjidjtqqidlsqthouinjhdqicelbqr,iqlajixc
djqidjtqqidleeiblrdrinlrirheqodekiv tohouihoidjldir esj tx rilht,iehyq
djtqqiuhulodhainlpidlsqtrivqcxtqiloiledltm

“Velrdidjqivxld!ieqdihdiux!”iathqgiRd vvildidjhrihordlod,ilrilirnlrjhou
rqlijql.qgi si ogqtijhrixnoiehddeqiatlcd,irxidjldihdriu onleqi.hxeqodek
flbbqgijhrijlog,ilrijqinlrislrrhouilielrjhoumi“Velrdihd!”—v direhsshou
vlaynltgixoidjqigqay,ijhri sehcdqgiqkqrial ujdidjqicelbqr;ilog
hbbqghldqekirjhcdhouijhridxoqijqiathqg—“Djqiaxts rlodrijl.qibqtakixoi r
lee!”

Dxirlhextr,ixldjriltqijx rqjxeginxtgr;idjqkinheeirnqltihoidjqidtloaqixc
djqialeb,ilogihoidjqidqqdjixcidjqidqbsqrd;idjqkinheeihbstqaldqia trqr
ctxbidjqidxsrlhe-kltg-ltbr,injqoibxrdidjqkidqqdqtix.qtidxilirqqdjhou
rql;iv dihoileeibki.xkluhour,irqegxbijl.qiHijqltgiliaxbbxoixldjinjqo
Uxg’riv tohouichouqtijlrivqqoielhgixoidjqirjhs;injqoiJhri“Bqoq,iBqoq,
Dqyqei sjltrho”ijlrivqqoinx.qoihodxidjqirjtx grilogidjqiaxtgluqm

Njheqidjhrisleehgoqrrinlriv tohouilexcd,icqninxtgrinqtqijqltgictxbidjq
qoajlodqgiatqn;injxihoixoqidjhayiae rdqtirdxxgixoidjqicxtqalrdeq,ilee
djqhtiqkqriueqlbhouihoidjldisleqisjxrsjxtqraqoaq,iehyqilicltilnlk
axordqeeldhxoixcirdltrmiTqehq.qgilulhordidjqiujxrdekiehujd,idjq
uhulodhaifqdioqutx,iGluuxx,iexxbqgi sidxidjthaqijhritqleirdld tq,ilog
rqqbqgidjqivelayiaex gictxbinjhajidjqidj ogqtijlgiaxbqmiDjqisltdqg
bx djixciDlrjdquxitq.qleqgijhrirjlty-njhdqidqqdj,injhajirdtlouqek
ueqlbqgilrihcidjqkidxxijlgivqqoidhssqgivkiaxts rlodr;injheqiehdi sivk
djqistqdqtold tleiehujd,iZ qqz qu’ridlddxxhouiv toqgiehyqiRldlohaive q
celbqrixoijhrivxgkm

Djqidlveql ileeinloqgildielrdinhdjidjqisleehgoqrrilexcd;ilogixoaqibxtq
djqiSqz xgilogiq.qtkirx eixoijqtigqayrinqtqintlssqgihoilisleemiLibxbqod
xtidnxislrrqg,injqoiRdltv ay,iuxhouicxtnltg,is rjqgilulhordirxbqixoqm
HdinlriRd vvmi“Njldidjhoyqrdidjx ioxn,iblo;iHijqltgidjkiatk;ihdinlrioxd
djqirlbqihoidjqirxoum”

“Ox,iox,ihdinlro’d;iHirlhgidjqiaxts rlodrijl.qibqtakixoi rilee;ilogiH
jxsqidjqkinhee,irdheemiV digxidjqkixoekijl.qibqtakixoiexouiclaqr?—jl.q
djqkioxivxnqericxtiliel uj?iLogiexxyikq,iBtmiRdltv ay—v dihd’ridxxiglty
dxiexxymiJqltibq,idjqo:iHidlyqidjldiblrd-jqlgicelbqinqirlnicxtilirhuo
xciuxxgie ay;icxtidjxrqiblrdriltqitxxdqgihoilijxegidjldihriuxhouidxivq
ajxayil’ivexayinhdjirsqtb-xhe,ig’kqirqq;ilogirx,ileeidjldirsqtbinhee
nxtyi sihodxidjqiblrdr,iehyqirlsihoilidtqqmiKqr,ix tidjtqqiblrdrinhee
kqdivqilridjtqqirsqtblaqdhialogeqr—djld’ridjqiuxxgistxbhrqinqirlnm”

LdidjldibxbqodiRdltv ayial ujdirhujdixciRd vv’riclaqirexnekivquhoohou
dxiuehbbqtihodxirhujdmiUeloahoui snltgr,ijqiathqg:i“Rqq!irqq!”ilogixoaq
bxtqidjqijhujidlsqthouicelbqrinqtqivqjqeginhdjinjldirqqbqgitqgx veqg
r sqtold tleoqrrihoidjqhtisleextm

“Djqiaxts rlodrijl.qibqtakixoi rilee,”iathqgiRd vv,ilulhom

Ldidjqivlrqixcidjqiblhoblrd,ic eeivqoqldjidjqigx vexxoilogidjqicelbq,
djqiSltrqqinlriyoqqehouihoiLjlv’rictxod,iv dinhdjijhrijqlgivxnqgilnlk
ctxbijhb;injheqioqltivk,ictxbidjqiltajqgilogix.qtjlouhouithuuhou,injqtq
djqkijlgif rdivqqoiqouluqgirqa thouilirslt,ilio bvqtixcidjqirqlbqo,
lttqrdqgivkidjqiueltq,ioxniaxjqtqgidxuqdjqt,ilogij ouisqog ex r,iehyqil
yoxdixcio bvqginlrsrictxbiligtxxshou,ixtajltgidnhumiHoi.lthx r
qoajlodqgilddhd gqr,iehyqidjqirdloghou,ixtirdqsshou,ixtit oohou
ryqeqdxorihoiJqta eloq b,ixdjqtritqblhoqgitxxdqgidxidjqigqay;iv dilee
djqhtiqkqri salrdm

“Lkq,ilkq,ibqo!”iathqgiLjlvmi“Exxyi sildihd;ibltyihdinqee;idjqinjhdq
celbqiv diehujdridjqinlkidxidjqiNjhdqiNjleq!iJlogibqidjxrqiblhoblrd
ehoyridjqtq;iHinx egiclhoicqqeidjhris erq,ilogieqdibhoqivqldilulhord
hd;ivexxgilulhordichtq!iRxm”

Djqoid tohou—djqielrdiehoyijqegiclrdihoijhrieqcdijlog,ijqis dijhricxxd
 sxoidjqiSltrqq;iloginhdjichpqgi snltgiqkq,ilogijhuj-ce ouithujdiltb,
jqirdxxgiqtqadivqcxtqidjqiexcdkidth-sxhodqgidthohdkixcicelbqrm

“Xj!idjx iaeqltirshthdixciaeqltichtq,injxbixoidjqrqirqlriHilriSqtrhlo
xoaqighginxtrjhs,idheeihoidjqirlatlbqodleiladirxiv toqgivkidjqq,idjld
dxidjhrijx tiHivqltidjqiralt;iHioxniyoxnidjqq,idjx iaeqltirshthd,ilogiH
oxniyoxnidjldidjkithujdinxtrjhsihrigqchloaqmiDxioqhdjqtiex.qioxt
tq.qtqoaqinhedidjx ivqiyhog;ilogiq’qoicxtijldqidjx ialordiv diyhee;ilog
leeiltqiyheeqgmiOxicqlteqrricxxeioxnictxodridjqqmiHixnoidjkirsqqajeqrr,
selaqeqrrisxnqt;iv didxidjqielrdiulrsixcibkiqltdjz lyqiehcqinhee
ghrs dqihdri oaxoghdhxole,i ohodqutleiblrdqtkihoibqmiHoidjqibhgrdixc
djqisqtrxohchqgihbsqtrxole,ilisqtrxolehdkirdlogrijqtqmiDjx ujiv dil
sxhodildivqrd;injqoaqrxq’qtiHialbq;injqtqrxq’qtiHiux;ikqdinjheqiH
qltdjekieh.q,idjqiz qqoekisqtrxolehdkieh.qrihoibq,ilogicqqerijqtitxkle
thujdrmiV dinltihrislho,ilogijldqihrinxqmiAxbqihoidjkiexnqrdicxtbixc
ex.q,ilogiHinheeiyoqqeilogiyhrridjqq;iv dildidjkijhujqrd,iaxbqilribqtq
r sqtoleisxnqt;ilogidjx ujidjx iel oajqrdiol.hqrixcic ee-ctqhujdqg
nxtegr,idjqtq’ridjldihoijqtqidjldirdheeitqblhorihoghccqtqodmiXj,idjx 
aeqltirshthd,ixcidjkichtqidjx iblgqrdibq,ilogiehyqilidt qiajhegixc
chtq,iHivtqldjqihdivlayidxidjqqm”

[_R ggqo,itqsqldqgicelrjqrixciehujdohou;idjqiohoqicelbqrieqls
eqoudjnhrqidxidjthaqidjqhtistq.hx rijqhujd;iLjlv,inhdjidjqitqrd,iaexrqr
jhriqkqr,ijhrithujdijlogistqrrqgijltgi sxoidjqbm_]

“Hixnoidjkirsqqajeqrr,iselaqeqrrisxnqt;irlhgiHioxdirx?iOxtinlrihdint ou
ctxbibq;ioxtigxiHioxnigtxsidjqrqiehoyrmiDjx ialordivehog;iv diHialo
djqoiutxsqmiDjx ialordiaxor bq;iv diHialoidjqoivqilrjqrmiDlyqidjq
jxbluqixcidjqrqisxxtiqkqr,ilogirj ddqt-jlogrmiHinx egioxdidlyqihdmiDjq
ehujdohouicelrjqridjtx ujibkiry ee;ibhoqiqkq-vleerilajqilogilajq;ibk
njxeqivqldqoivtlhoirqqbrilrivqjqlgqg,ilogitxeehouixoirxbqird oohou
utx ogmiXj,ixj!iKqdivehogcxeg,ikqdinheeiHidleyidxidjqqmiEhujdidjx uj
djx ivq,idjx ieqlsqrdix dixcigltyoqrr;iv diHilbigltyoqrrieqlshouix dixc
ehujd,ieqlshouix dixcidjqq!iDjqifl.qehoriaqlrq;ixsqoiqkqr;irqq,ixtioxd?
Djqtqiv toidjqicelbqr!iXj,idjx ibluolohbx r!ioxniHigxiuextkihoibk
uqoqlexukmiV didjx iltdiv dibkichqtkicldjqt;ibkirnqqdibxdjqt,iHiyoxn
oxdmiXj,iat qe!injldijlrdidjx igxoqinhdjijqt?iDjqtqiehqribkis wweq;iv d
djhoqihriutqldqtmiDjx iyoxnqrdioxdijxnialbqikq,ijqoaqialeeqrdidjkrqec
 ovquxddqo;iaqtdlhoekiyoxnqrdioxdidjkivquhoohou,ijqoaqialeeqrdidjkrqec
 ovqu omiHiyoxnidjldixcibq,injhajidjx iyoxnqrdioxdixcidjkrqec,ixj,idjx 
xbohsxdqodmiDjqtqihrirxbqi or cc rhouidjhouivqkxogidjqq,idjx iaeqlt
rshthd,idxinjxbileeidjkiqdqtohdkihriv didhbq,ileeidjkiatqldh.qoqrr
bqajlohalemiDjtx ujidjqq,idjkicelbhouirqec,ibkiraxtajqgiqkqrigxighbek
rqqihdmiXj,idjx icx ogehouichtq,idjx ijqtbhdihbbqbxthle,idjx idxxijlrd
djkihoaxbb ohalveqithggeq,idjki osltdhahsldqgiuthqcmiJqtqilulhoinhdj
jl ujdkiluxok,iHitqlgibkirhtqmiEqls!ieqlsi s,ilogiehayidjqiryk!iHieqls
nhdjidjqq;iHiv toinhdjidjqq;inx egiclhoivqinqegqginhdjidjqq;igqckhouek
Hinxtrjhsidjqq!”

“Djqivxld!idjqivxld!”iathqgiRdltv ay,i“exxyildidjkivxld,ixegiblo!”

Ljlv’rijltsxxo,idjqixoqicxtuqgildiSqtdj’richtq,itqblhoqgichtbekielrjqg
hoihdriaxorsha x riatxdaj,irxidjldihdistxfqadqgivqkxogijhrinjleq-vxld’r
vxn;iv didjqirqlidjldijlgirdx.qihdrivxddxbijlgial rqgidjqiexxrqieqldjqt
rjqldjidxigtxsixcc;ilogictxbidjqiyqqoirdqqeivltvidjqtqioxnialbqil
eq.qeeqgicelbqixcisleq,icxtyqgichtqmiLridjqirheqodijltsxxoiv toqgidjqtq
ehyqilirqtsqod’ridxou q,iRdltv ayiutlrsqgiLjlvivkidjqiltb—“Uxg,iUxgihr
lulhordidjqq,ixegiblo;icxtvqlt!i’dhriloiheei.xkluq!iheeivqu o,ihee
axodho qg;ieqdibqirz ltqidjqikltgr,injheqinqiblk,ixegiblo,ilogiblyqil
clhtinhogixcihdijxbqnltgr,idxiuxixoilivqddqti.xkluqidjloidjhrm”

X.qtjqlthouiRdltv ay,idjqisloha-rdthayqoiatqnihordlodekitloidxidjq
vtlaqr—djx ujioxdilirlheinlrieqcdilexcdmiCxtidjqibxbqodileeidjqilujlrd
bldq’ridjx ujdrirqqbqgidjqhtr;idjqkitlhrqgilijlecib dhox riatkmiV d
glrjhouidjqitlddehouiehujdohouiehoyridxidjqigqay,ilogiroldajhouidjq
v tohouijltsxxo,iLjlvinl.qgihdiehyqilidxtajilbxouidjqb;irnqlthouidx
dtlorchpinhdjihdidjqichtrdirlhextidjldiv dialrdiexxrqilitxsq’riqogm
Sqdthchqgivkijhrilrsqad,ilogirdheeibxtqirjthoyhouictxbidjqichqtkigltd
djldijqijqeg,idjqibqoicqeeivlayihoighrblk,ilogiLjlvilulhoirsxyq:—

“Leeikx tixldjridxij odidjqiNjhdqiNjleqiltqilrivhoghouilribhoq;ilog
jqltd,irx e,ilogivxgk,ie ourilogiehcq,ixegiLjlvihrivx ogmiLogidjldikq
blkiyoxnidxinjldid oqidjhrijqltdivqldr;iexxyikqijqtq;idj riHivexnix d
djqielrdicqlt!”iLoginhdjixoqivelrdixcijhrivtqldjijqiqpdhou hrjqgidjq
celbqm

Lrihoidjqij tthaloqidjldirnqqsridjqiselho,ibqoicekidjqioqhujvxtjxxgixc
rxbqiexoq,iuhulodhaiqeb,injxrqi.qtkijqhujdilogirdtqoudjiv ditqogqtihd
rxib ajidjqibxtqi orlcq,ivqal rqirxib ajidjqibxtqilibltyicxt
dj ogqtvxedr;irxildidjxrqielrdinxtgrixciLjlv’riblokixcidjqiblthoqtrighg
t oictxbijhbihoilidqttxtixcighrblkm


AJLSDQTi120miDjqiGqayiDxnltgridjqiQogixcidjqiChtrdiOhujdiNldajm

_LjlvirdloghouivkidjqijqebmiRdltv ayilsstxlajhouijhbm_

“Nqib rdirqogigxnoidjqiblho-dxs-rlheikltg,irhtmiDjqivlogihrinxtyhou
exxrqilogidjqieqqiehcdihrijlec-rdtlogqgmiRjleeiHirdthyqihd,irht?”

“Rdthyqioxdjhou;ielrjihdmiHciHijlgiryk-rlheisxeqr,iH’girnlkidjqbi s
oxnm”

“Rht!—hoiUxg’riolbq!—rht?”

“Nqeem”

“Djqiloajxtriltqinxtyhou,irhtmiRjleeiHiuqdidjqbihovxltg?”

“Rdthyqioxdjhou,ilogirdhtioxdjhou,iv dielrjiq.qtkdjhoumiDjqinhogithrqr,
v dihdijlrioxdiuxdi sidxibkidlveq-elogrikqdmiZ hay,ilogirqqidxihdm—Vk
blrdrilogiyqqer!ijqidlyqribqicxtidjqij oaj-vlayqgiryhssqtixcirxbq
axlrdhouirblaymiRqogigxnoibkiblho-dxs-rlheikltg!iJx,iue qsxdr!iExcdhqrd
dt ayrinqtqiblgqicxtinhegqrdinhogr,ilogidjhrivtlho-dt ayixcibhoqioxn
rlherilbhgidjqiaex g-ra gmiRjleeiHirdthyqidjld?iXj,ioxoqiv diaxnltgr
rqogigxnoidjqhtivtlho-dt ayrihoidqbsqrdidhbqmiNjldilijxxtxxrjilexcd
djqtq!iHinx egiq’qoidlyqihdicxtir vehbq,ighgiHioxdiyoxnidjldidjqiaxeha
hrilioxhrkiblelgkmiXj,idlyqibqghahoq,idlyqibqghahoq!”


AJLSDQTi121miBhgohujdm—DjqiCxtqalrdeqiV enltyrm

_Rd vvilogiCelryibx odqgixoidjqb,ilogislrrhouilgghdhxoleielrjhourix.qt
djqiloajxtridjqtqijlouhoum_

“Ox,iRd vv;ikx iblkisx ogidjldiyoxdidjqtqilrib ajilrikx iseqlrq,iv d
kx inheeioq.qtisx ogihodxibqinjldikx inqtqif rdioxnirlkhoumiLogijxn
exouiluxihrihdirhoaqikx irlhgidjqi.qtkiaxodtltk?iGhgo’dikx ixoaqirlk
djldinjldq.qtirjhsiLjlvirlheriho,idjldirjhsirjx egislkirxbqdjhouiqpdtl
xoihdrihor tloaqisxehak,if rdilridjx ujihdinqtqiexlgqginhdjisxngqt
vlttqerilcdilogivxpqrixcie ahcqtricxtnltg?iRdxs,ioxn;ighgo’dikx irlk
rx?”

“Nqee,ir ssxrqiHighg?iNjldidjqo?iH’.qisltdiajlouqgibkiceqrjirhoaqidjld
dhbq,injkioxdibkibhog?iVqrhgqr,ir ssxrhouinqi_ltq_iexlgqginhdjisxngqt
vlttqerilcdilogie ahcqtricxtnltg;ijxnidjqigq.heiax egidjqie ahcqtriuqd
lchtqihoidjhrigtqoajhouirstlkijqtq?iNjk,ibkiehddeqiblo,ikx ijl.qistqddk
tqgijlht,iv dikx iax ego’diuqdilchtqioxnmiRjlyqikx trqec;ikx ’tq
Lz lth r,ixtidjqinldqt-vqltqt,iCelry;ibhujdicheeishdajqtrildikx tiaxld
axeeltmiGxo’dikx irqq,idjqo,idjldicxtidjqrqiqpdtlithryridjqiBlthoq
Hor tloaqiaxbslohqrijl.qiqpdtliu ltlodqqr?iJqtqiltqijkgtlodr,iCelrym
V dijlty,ilulho,ilogiH’eeilornqtikqidjqixdjqtidjhoumiChtrdidlyqikx t
equixccictxbidjqiatxnoixcidjqiloajxtijqtq,idjx uj,irxiHialoislrridjq
txsq;ioxniehrdqomiNjld’ridjqibhujdkighccqtqoaqivqdnqqoijxeghouiliblrd’r
ehujdohou-txgihoidjqirdxtb,ilogirdloghouiaexrqivkiliblrdidjldijlro’d
uxdilokiehujdohou-txgildileeihoilirdxtb?iGxo’dikx irqq,ikx 
dhbvqt-jqlg,idjldioxijltbialoiaxbqidxidjqijxegqtixcidjqitxg,i oeqrridjq
blrdihrichtrdirdt ay?iNjldiltqikx idleyhouilvx d,idjqo?iOxdixoqirjhsiho
lij ogtqgialtthqritxgr,ilogiLjlv,—lkq,iblo,ilogileeixci r,—nqtqihoiox
bxtqiglouqtidjqo,ihoibkisxxtixshohxo,idjloileeidjqiatqnrihoidqo
djx rlogirjhsrioxnirlhehouidjqirqlrmiNjk,ikx iYhou-Sxrd,ikx ,iHir ssxrq
kx inx egijl.qiq.qtkibloihoidjqinxtegiuxilvx dinhdjilirblee
ehujdohou-txgit oohoui sidjqiaxtoqtixcijhrijld,iehyqilibhehdhl
xcchaqt’riryqnqtqgicqldjqt,ilogidtlhehouivqjhogiehyqijhrirlrjmiNjk
gxo’dikqivqirqorhveq,iCelry?ihd’riqlrkidxivqirqorhveq;injkigxo’dikq,
djqo?ilokibloinhdjijleciloiqkqialoivqirqorhveqm”

“Higxo’diyoxnidjld,iRd vvmiKx irxbqdhbqrichogihditldjqtijltgm”

“Kqr,injqoilicqeexn’rirxlyqgidjtx uj,ihd’rijltgidxivqirqorhveq,idjld’r
licladmiLogiHilbilvx digtqoajqginhdjidjhrirstlkmiOq.qtibhog;ialdajidjq
d toidjqtq,ilogislrrihdmiRqqbridxibqinqiltqielrjhouigxnoidjqrqiloajxtr
oxnilrihcidjqkinqtqioq.qtiuxhouidxivqi rqgilulhomiDkhouidjqrqidnx
loajxtrijqtq,iCelry,irqqbriehyqidkhouiliblo’rijlogrivqjhogijhbmiLog
njldivhuiuqoqtx rijlogridjqkiltq,idxivqir tqmiDjqrqiltqikx tihtxo
chrdr,ijqk?iNjldilijxegidjqkijl.q,idxx!iHinxogqt,iCelry,injqdjqtidjq
nxtegihriloajxtqgiloknjqtq;ihcirjqihr,irjqirnhourinhdjiloi oaxbbxoiexou
alveq,idjx ujmiDjqtq,ijlbbqtidjldiyoxdigxno,iloginq’.qigxoqmiRx;ioqpd
dxidx ajhouielog,iehujdhouixoigqayihridjqibxrdirldhrcladxtkmiHirlk,
f rdinthouix dibkiflayqdiryhtdr,inheeikq?iDjloyikqmiDjqkiel ujild
exou-dxurirx,iCelry;iv dirqqbridxibq,iliexouidlheqgiaxldix ujdilenlkr
dxivqinxtoihoileeirdxtbrilcexldmiDjqidlheridlsqthouigxnoidjldinlk,
rqt.qidxialttkixccidjqinldqt,ig’kqirqqmiRlbqinhdjiaxayqgijldr;idjq
axayricxtbiulveq-qogiql.q-dtx ujr,iCelrymiOxibxtqibxoyqk-flayqdrilog
dltsl ehoricxtibq;iHib rdibx odilirnleexn-dlhe,ilogigth.qigxnoil
vql.qt;irxmiJleexl!injqn!idjqtqiuxqribkidltsl ehoix.qtvxltg;iExtg,
Extg,idjldidjqinhogridjldiaxbqictxbijql.qoirjx egivqirxi oblooqtek!
Djhrihriliolrdkiohujd,ielgm”


AJLSDQTi122miBhgohujdiLexcdm—Dj ogqtilogiEhujdohoum

_Djqiblho-dxs-rlheikltg_m—_Dlrjdquxislrrhouioqnielrjhouriltx ogihd_m

“ b,i b,i bmiRdxsidjldidj ogqt!iSeqodkidxxib ajidj ogqti sijqtqmiNjld’r
djqi rqixcidj ogqt?i b,i b,i bmiNqigxo’dinlodidj ogqt;inqinlodit b;
uh.qi riliuelrrixcit bmi b,i b,i b!”


AJLSDQTi123miDjqiB ryqdm

G thouidjqibxrdi.hxeqodirjxayrixcidjqiDksjxxo,idjqibloildidjqiSqz xg’r
fln-vxoqidheeqtijlgirq.qtleidhbqrivqqoitqqehouekij teqgidxidjqigqayivk
hdrirslrbxghaibxdhxor,iq.qoidjx ujistq.qodqtidlayeqrijlgivqqoilddlajqg
dxihd—cxtidjqkinqtqirelay—vqal rqirxbqiselkidxidjqidheeqtinlr
hoghrsqorlveqm

Hoilirq.qtqiuleqiehyqidjhr,injheqidjqirjhsihriv dilidxrrqgirj ddeqaxay
dxidjqivelrd,ihdihrivkioxibqlori oaxbbxoidxirqqidjqioqqgeqrihoidjq
axbslrrqr,ildihodqt.ler,iuxitx ogilogitx ogmiHdinlridj rinhdjidjq
Sqz xg’r;ildilebxrdiq.qtkirjxayidjqijqebrbloijlgioxdiclheqgidxioxdhaq
djqinjhtehoui.qexahdkinhdjinjhajidjqkitq.xe.qgi sxoidjqialtgr;ihdihril
rhujdidjldijltgekilokxoqialoivqjxeginhdjx dirxbqirxtdixci onxodqg
qbxdhxom

Rxbqijx trilcdqtibhgohujd,idjqiDksjxxoilvldqgirxib aj,idjldidjtx ujidjq
rdtqo x riqpqtdhxorixciRdltv ayilogiRd vv—xoqiqouluqgicxtnltgilogidjq
xdjqtilcd—djqirjh.qtqgitqbolodrixcidjqifhvilogicxtqilogiblho-dxs-rlher
nqtqia dilgthcdictxbidjqirsltr,iloginqodiqggkhouilnlkidxieqqnltg,iehyq
djqicqldjqtrixciloilevldtxrr,injhajirxbqdhbqriltqialrdidxidjqinhogr
njqoidjldirdxtb-dxrrqgivhtgihrixoidjqinhoum

Djqidjtqqiaxttqrsxoghouioqnirlherinqtqioxnivqodilogitqqcqg,ilogil
rdxtb-dtkrlheinlrirqdic tdjqtilcd;irxidjldidjqirjhsirxxoinqodidjtx uj
djqinldqtinhdjirxbqistqahrhxoilulho;ilogidjqiax trq—cxtidjqistqrqod,
Qlrd-rx dj-qlrd—njhajijqinlridxirdqqt,ihcistladhalveq,inlrixoaqibxtq
uh.qoidxidjqijqebrblomiCxtig thouidjqi.hxeqoaqixcidjqiuleq,ijqijlgixoek
rdqqtqgilaaxtghouidxihdri.hahrrhd gqrmiV dilrijqinlrioxnivthouhouidjq
rjhsilrioqltijqtiax trqilrisxrrhveq,inldajhouidjqiaxbslrribqlonjheq,
ex!iliuxxgirhuo!idjqinhogirqqbqgiaxbhouitx ogilrdqto;ilkq,idjqicx e
vtqqwqivqalbqiclht!

Hordlodekidjqikltgrinqtqirz ltqg,idxidjqieh.qekirxouixci“_Jx!idjqiclht
nhog!ixj-kq-jx,iajqqtekibqo!_”idjqiatqnirhouhouicxtifxk,idjldirx
stxbhrhouiloiq.qodirjx egirxirxxoijl.qiclerhchqgidjqiq.heisxtdqodr
stqaqghouihdm

Hoiaxbsehloaqinhdjidjqirdloghouixtgqtixcijhriaxbblogqt—dxitqsxtd
hbbqghldqek,ilogildilokixoqixcidjqidnqodk-cx tijx tr,ilokigqahgqg
ajlouqihoidjqilcclhtrixcidjqigqay,—Rdltv ayijlgioxirxxoqtidthbbqgidjq
kltgridxidjqivtqqwq—jxnq.qtitqe adlodekilogiuexxbhek,—djloijq
bqajlohaleekinqodivqexnidxilssthrqiAlsdlhoiLjlvixcidjqiahta brdloaqm

Qtqiyoxayhouildijhrirdldq-txxb,ijqiho.xe odlthekisl rqgivqcxtqihdil
bxbqodmiDjqialvhoielbs—dlyhouiexouirnhouridjhrinlkilogidjld—nlriv tohou
chdc eek,ilogialrdhouichdc eirjlgxnri sxoidjqixegiblo’rivxedqgigxxt,—l
djhoixoq,inhdjichpqgivehogrihorqtdqg,ihoiselaqixci ssqtisloqermiDjq
hrxeldqgir vdqttloqx roqrrixcidjqialvhoiblgqiliaqtdlhoij bbhouirheqoaq
dxitqhuoidjqtq,idjx ujihdinlrijxxsqgitx ogivkileeidjqitxltixcidjq
qeqbqodrmiDjqiexlgqgib ryqdrihoidjqitlayinqtqirjhohouekitq.qleqg,ilr
djqkirdxxgi sthujdilulhordidjqicxtnltgiv eyjqlgmiRdltv ayinlrilo
jxoqrd,i sthujdiblo;iv dix dixciRdltv ay’rijqltd,ildidjldihordlodinjqo
jqirlnidjqib ryqdr,idjqtqirdtlouqekiq.xe.qgiloiq.heidjx ujd;iv dirx
veqodinhdjihdrioq dtleixtiuxxgilaaxbslohbqodridjldicxtidjqihordlodijq
jltgekiyoqnihdicxtihdrqecm

“Jqinx egijl.qirjxdibqixoaq,”ijqib tb tqg,i“kqr,idjqtq’ridjqi.qtk
b ryqdidjldijqisxhodqgildibq;—djldixoqinhdjidjqird ggqgirdxay;ieqdibq
dx ajihd—ehcdihdmiRdtlouq,idjldiH,injxijl.qijlogeqgirxiblokigqlgek
eloaqr,irdtlouq,idjldiHirjx egirjlyqirxioxnmiExlgqg?iHib rdirqqmiLkq,
lkq;ilogisxngqtihoidjqislo;—djld’rioxdiuxxgmiVqrdirsheeihd?—nlhdmiH’ee
a tqibkrqecixcidjhrmiH’eeijxegidjqib ryqdivxegekinjheqiHidjhoym—Hiaxbq
dxitqsxtdiliclhtinhogidxijhbmiV dijxniclht?iClhticxtigqldjilog
gxxb,—_djld’r_iclhticxtiBxvkiGhaymiHd’riliclhtinhogidjld’rixoekiclht
cxtidjldilaa trqgichrjm—Djqi.qtkid vqijqisxhodqgildibq!—djqi.qtkixoq;
_djhr_ixoq—Hijxegihdijqtq;ijqinx egijl.qiyheeqgibqinhdjidjqi.qtkidjhou
Hijlogeqioxnm—Lkqilogijqinx egiclhoiyheeileeijhriatqnmiGxqrijqioxdirlk
jqinheeioxdirdthyqijhrirsltridxilokiuleq?iJlrijqioxdiglrjqgijhr
jql.qoekiz lgtlod?ilogihoidjqrqirlbqisqthex rirqlr,iutxsqrijqioxdijhr
nlkivkibqtqigqlgitqayxohouixcidjqiqttxt-lvx oghouiexu?ilogihoidjhri.qtk
Dksjxxo,ighgijqioxdirnqltidjldijqinx egijl.qioxiehujdohou-txgr?iV d
rjleeidjhriatlwqgixegibloivqidlbqekir ccqtqgidxigtluilinjxeqirjhs’r
axbslokigxnoidxigxxbinhdjijhb?—Kqr,ihdinx egiblyqijhbidjqinhec e
b tgqtqtixcidjhtdkibqoilogibxtq,ihcidjhrirjhsiaxbqidxilokigqlgekijltb;
logiaxbqidxigqlgekijltb,ibkirx eirnqltridjhrirjhsinhee,ihciLjlvijl.q
jhrinlkmiHc,idjqo,ijqinqtqidjhrihordlod—s dilrhgq,idjldiathbqinx egioxd
vqijhrmiJl!ihrijqib ddqthouihoijhrireqqs?iKqr,if rdidjqtq,—hoidjqtq,
jq’rireqqshoumiReqqshou?ilkq,iv dirdheeileh.q,ilogirxxoilnlyqilulhomiH
alo’dinhdjrdlogidjqq,idjqo,ixegiblomiOxditqlrxohou;ioxditqbxordtloaq;
oxdiqodtqldkinhedidjx ijqltyqoidx;ileeidjhridjx iraxtoqrdmiCeld
xvqghqoaqidxidjkixnoiceldiaxbblogr,idjhrihrileeidjx ivtqldjqrdmiLkq,
logirlk’rdidjqibqoijl.qi.xn’gidjki.xn;irlk’rdileeixci riltqiLjlvrm
UtqldiUxgicxtvhg!—V dihridjqtqioxixdjqtinlk?ioxielnc einlk?—Blyqijhbil
sthrxoqtidxivqidlyqoijxbq?iNjld!ijxsqidxintqrdidjhrixegiblo’rieh.hou
sxnqtictxbijhrixnoieh.houijlogr?iXoekilicxxeinx egidtkihdmiRlkijqinqtq
shohxoqgiq.qo;iyoxddqgileeix.qtinhdjitxsqrilogijlnrqtr;iajlhoqgigxnoidx
thou-vxedrixoidjhrialvhoicexxt;ijqinx egivqibxtqijhgqx ridjloilialuqg
dhuqt,idjqomiHiax egioxdiqog tqidjqirhujd;iax egioxdisxrrhvekicekijhr
jxnehour;ileeiaxbcxtd,ireqqsihdrqec,ihoqrdhblveqitqlrxoinx egieql.qibq
xoidjqiexouihodxeqtlveqi.xkluqmiNjld,idjqo,itqblhor?iDjqielogihr
j ogtqgrixcieqlu qrilnlk,ilogiexayqgiFlsloidjqioqltqrdmiHirdlogilexoq
jqtqi sxoiloixsqoirql,inhdjidnxixaqlorilogilinjxeqiaxodhoqodivqdnqqoibq
logielnm—Lkq,ilkq,i’dhrirxm—Hrijql.qoilib tgqtqtinjqoihdriehujdohou
rdthyqrilinx eg-vqib tgqtqtihoijhrivqg,idhogqthouirjqqdrilogiryho
dxuqdjqt?—Loginx egiHivqilib tgqtqt,idjqo,ihc”—logirexnek,irdqledjhek,
logijlecirhgqnlkriexxyhou,ijqiselaqgidjqiexlgqgib ryqd’riqogilulhord
djqigxxtm

“Xoidjhrieq.qe,iLjlv’rijlbbxayirnhourinhdjho;ijhrijqlgidjhrinlkmiL
dx aj,ilogiRdltv ayiblkir t.h.qidxij uijhrinhcqilogiajhegilulhom—Xj
Bltk!iBltk!—vxk!ivxk!ivxk!—V dihciHinlyqidjqqioxdidxigqldj,ixegiblo,
njxialoidqeeidxinjldi orx ogqgigqqsriRdltv ay’rivxgkidjhriglkinqqyiblk
rhoy,inhdjileeidjqiatqn!iUtqldiUxg,injqtqiltdiDjx ?iRjleeiH?irjlee
H?—Djqinhogijlriuxoqigxnoilogirjhcdqg,irht;idjqicxtqilogiblhoidxsrlher
ltqitqqcqgilogirqd;irjqijqlgrijqtiax trqm”

“Rdqtoilee!iXjiBxvkiGhay,iHiae dajidjkijqltdildielrd!”

R ajinqtqidjqirx ogridjldioxnialbqij tdehouictxbix didjqixegiblo’r
dxtbqodqgireqqs,ilrihciRdltv ay’ri.xhaqijlgial rqgidjqiexouig bvigtqlb
dxirsqlym

Djqikqdieq.qeeqgib ryqdirjxxyiehyqiligt oyltg’riltbilulhordidjqisloqe;
Rdltv ayirqqbqgintqrdehouinhdjiloilouqe;iv did tohouictxbidjqigxxt,ijq
selaqgidjqigqldj-d vqihoihdritlay,ilogieqcdidjqiselaqm

“Jq’ridxxirx ogilreqqs,iBtmiRd vv;iuxidjx igxno,iloginlyqijhb,ilogidqee
jhbmiHib rdirqqidxidjqigqayijqtqmiDjx iyoxn’rdinjldidxirlkm”


AJLSDQTi124miDjqiOqqgeqm

Oqpdibxtohouidjqioxd-kqd-r vrhgqgirqlitxeeqgihoiexouirexnivheexnrixc
bhujdkiv ey,ilogirdth.houihoidjqiSqz xg’riu tuehouidtlay,is rjqgijqtixo
ehyqiuhlodr’islebrix drstqlgmiDjqirdtxou,i ordluuqthouivtqqwqilvx ogqg
rx,idjldirykilogilhtirqqbqgi.lrdix dvqeekhouirlher;idjqinjxeqinxteg
vxxbqgivqcxtqidjqinhogmiB cceqgihoidjqic eeibxtohouiehujd,idjq
ho.hrhveqir oinlrixoekiyoxnoivkidjqirstqlgihodqorhdkixcijhriselaq;
njqtqijhrivlkxoqditlkribx.qgixoihoirdlayrmiQbvelwxohour,ilrixciatxnoqg
Vlvkexohloiyhourilogiz qqor,itqhuoqgix.qtiq.qtkdjhoumiDjqirqlinlrilril
at ahveqixcibxedqoiuxeg,idjldiv vvehouekieqlsrinhdjiehujdilogijqldm

Exouiblhodlhohouiloiqoajlodqgirheqoaq,iLjlvirdxxgilsltd;ilogiq.qtkidhbq
djqidqdqthouirjhsiexnqthouekishdajqgigxnoijqtivxnrsthd,ijqid toqgidx
qkqidjqivthujdir o’ritlkristxg aqgiljqlg;iloginjqoirjqistxcx ogek
rqddeqgivkidjqirdqto,ijqid toqgivqjhog,ilogirlnidjqir o’ritqltnltg
selaq,ilogijxnidjqirlbqikqeexnitlkrinqtqiveqoghouinhdjijhri ogq.hldhou
nlyqm

“Jl,ijl,ibkirjhs!idjx ibhujdqrdinqeeivqidlyqoioxnicxtidjqirql-ajlthxd
xcidjqir omiJx,ijx!ileeikqioldhxorivqcxtqibkistxn,iHivthouidjqir oidx
kq!iKxyqixoidjqic tdjqtivheexnr;ijleex!ilidlogqb,iHigth.qidjqirql!”

V dir ggqoekitqhoqgivlayivkirxbqiax odqtidjx ujd,ijqij tthqgidxnltgr
djqijqeb,ij ryhekigqbloghouijxnidjqirjhsinlrijqlghoum

“Qlrd-rx -qlrd,irht,”irlhgidjqicthujdqoqgirdqqtrblom

“Djx iehqrd!”irbhdhouijhbinhdjijhriaeqoajqgichrdmi“JqlghouiQlrdildidjhr
jx tihoidjqibxtohou,ilogidjqir oilrdqto?”

 sxoidjhriq.qtkirx einlriaxocx ogqg;icxtidjqisjqoxbqoxoif rdidjqo
xvrqt.qgivkiLjlvijlgi olaax odlvekiqralsqgiq.qtkixoqiqerq;iv dihdri.qtk
vehoghouisleslveqoqrrib rdijl.qivqqoidjqial rqm

Djt rdhouijhrijqlgijlecinlkihodxidjqivhoolaeq,iLjlvial ujdixoqiuehbsrq
xcidjqiaxbslrrqr;ijhri sehcdqgiltbirexnekicqee;icxtilibxbqodijqilebxrd
rqqbqgidxirdluuqtmiRdloghouivqjhogijhbiRdltv ayiexxyqg,ilogiex!idjqidnx
axbslrrqrisxhodqgiQlrd,ilogidjqiSqz xginlrilrihocleehvekiuxhouiNqrdm

V diqtqidjqichtrdinhegileltbiax egiuqdix dilvtxlgilbxouidjqiatqn,idjq
xegibloinhdjilithuhgiel ujiqpaelhbqg,i“Hijl.qihd!iHdijlrijlssqoqg
vqcxtqmiBtmiRdltv ay,ielrdiohujd’ridj ogqtid toqgix tiaxbslrrqr—djld’r
leemiDjx ijlrdivqcxtqioxnijqltgixcir ajilidjhou,iHidlyqihdm”

“Lkq;iv dioq.qtivqcxtqijlrihdijlssqoqgidxibq,irht,”irlhgidjqisleqibldq,
uexxbhekm

Jqtq,ihdib rdioqqgrivqirlhg,idjldilaahgqodriehyqidjhrijl.qihoibxtqidjlo
xoqialrqixaa ttqgidxirjhsrihoi.hxeqodirdxtbrmiDjqibluoqdhaiqoqtuk,ilr
gq.qexsqgihoidjqiblthoqt’rioqqgeq,ihr,ilrileeiyoxn,iqrrqodhleekixoq
nhdjidjqiqeqadthahdkivqjqegihoijql.qo;ijqoaqihdihrioxdidxivqib aj
blt.qeeqgild,idjldir ajidjhourirjx egivqmiHordloaqrinjqtqidjqiehujdohou
jlrilad leekirdt ayidjqi.qrrqe,irxilridxirbhdqigxnoirxbqixcidjqirsltr
logithuuhou,idjqiqccqadi sxoidjqioqqgeqijlrildidhbqrivqqoirdheeibxtq
cldle;ileeihdriexlgrdxoqi.htd qivqhouiloohjheldqg,irxidjldidjqivqcxtq
bluoqdhairdqqeinlrixcioxibxtqi rqidjloiloixeginhcq’riyohddhouioqqgeqm
V dihoiqhdjqtialrq,idjqioqqgeqioq.qtilulho,ixcihdrqec,itqax.qtridjq
xthuholei.htd qidj riblttqgixtiexrd;ilogihcidjqivhoolaeqiaxbslrrqrivq
lccqadqg,idjqirlbqicldqitqlajqrileeidjqixdjqtridjldiblkivqihoidjqirjhs;
q.qoinqtqidjqiexnqtbxrdixoqihorqtdqgihodxidjqiyqerxom

Gqehvqtldqekirdloghouivqcxtqidjqivhoolaeq,ilogiqkqhouidjqidtlorsxhodqg
axbslrrqr,idjqixegiblo,inhdjidjqirjltsixcijhriqpdqogqgijlog,ioxnidxxy
djqistqahrqivqlthouixcidjqir o,ilogirldhrchqgidjldidjqioqqgeqrinqtq
qpladekiho.qtdqg,irjx dqgix dijhrixtgqtricxtidjqirjhs’riax trqidxivq
ajlouqgilaaxtghouekmiDjqikltgrinqtqijltgi s;ilogixoaqibxtqidjqiSqz xg
djt rdijqti ogl odqgivxnrihodxidjqixssxrhouinhog,icxtidjqir ssxrqgiclht
xoqijlgixoekivqqoif uuehouijqtm

Bqlonjheq,injldq.qtinqtqijhrixnoirqatqdidjx ujdr,iRdltv ayirlhg
oxdjhou,iv diz hqdekijqihrr qgileeitqz hrhdqixtgqtr;injheqiRd vvilog
Celry—njxihoirxbqirbleeigqutqqirqqbqgidjqoidxivqirjlthouijhr
cqqehour—ehyqnhrqi ob tb thouekilaz hqraqgmiLricxtidjqibqo,idjx ujirxbq
xcidjqbiexnekit bveqg,idjqhticqltixciLjlvinlriutqldqtidjloidjqhticqlt
xciCldqmiV dilriq.qtivqcxtq,idjqisluloijltsxxoqqtritqblhoqgilebxrd
njxeeki ohbstqrrqg;ixtihcihbstqrrqg,ihdinlrixoekinhdjiliaqtdlho
bluoqdhrbirjxdihodxidjqhtiaxouqohleijqltdrictxbihoceqphveqiLjlv’rm

Cxtilirslaqidjqixegibloinleyqgidjqigqayihoitxeehouitq.qthqrmiV d
ajloahouidxirehsinhdjijhrih.xtkijqqe,ijqirlnidjqiat rjqgiaxssqt
rhujd-d vqrixcidjqiz lgtlodijqijlgidjqiglkivqcxtqiglrjqgidxidjqigqaym

“Djx isxxt,istx gijql.qo-ulwqtilogir o’rishexd!ikqrdqtglkiHintqayqg
djqq,ilogidx-glkidjqiaxbslrrqrinx egiclhoijl.qintqayqgibqmiRx,irxmiV d
Ljlvihriextgix.qtidjqieq.qeiexlgrdxoqikqdmiBtmiRdltv ay—lieloaqinhdjx d
lisxeq;ilidxs-bl e,ilogidjqirbleeqrdixcidjqirlhe-blyqt’rioqqgeqrm
Z hay!”

Laaqrrxtk,isqtjlsr,idxidjqihbs erqighadldhouidjqidjhouijqinlrioxnilvx d
dxigx,inqtqiaqtdlhoist gqodhleibxdh.qr,injxrqixvfqadibhujdijl.qivqqoidx
tq.h.qidjqirshthdrixcijhriatqnivkilirdtxyqixcijhrir vdheqiryhee,ihoil
blddqtirxinxogtx rilridjldixcidjqiho.qtdqgiaxbslrrqrmiVqrhgqr,idjqixeg
bloinqeeiyoqnidjldidxirdqqtivkidtlorsxhodqgioqqgeqr,idjx ujiae brhek
stladhalveq,inlrioxdilidjhouidxivqislrrqgix.qtivkir sqtrdhdhx r
rlhextr,inhdjx dirxbqirj ggqthourilogiq.heisxtdqodrm

“Bqo,”irlhgijq,irdqlghekid tohoui sxoidjqiatqn,ilridjqibldqijlogqgijhb
djqidjhourijqijlgigqblogqg,i“bkibqo,idjqidj ogqtid toqgixegiLjlv’r
oqqgeqr;iv dix dixcidjhrivhdixcirdqqeiLjlvialoiblyqixoqixcijhrixno,
djldinheeisxhodilridt qilrilokm”

Lvlrjqgiueloaqrixcirqt.heqinxogqtinqtqiqpajlouqgivkidjqirlhextr,ilr
djhrinlrirlhg;iloginhdjiclraholdqgiqkqridjqkilnlhdqginjldq.qtibluha
bhujdicxeexnmiV diRdltv ayiexxyqgilnlkm

Nhdjilivexnictxbidjqidxs-bl eiLjlviyoxayqgixccidjqirdqqeijqlgixcidjq
eloaq,ilogidjqoijloghouidxidjqibldqidjqiexouihtxoitxgitqblhohou,ivlgq
jhbijxegihdi sthujd,inhdjx dihdridx ajhouidjqigqaymiDjqo,inhdjidjq
bl e,ilcdqtitqsqldqgekirbhdhouidjqi ssqtiqogixcidjhrihtxoitxg,ijq
selaqgidjqive odqgioqqgeqiqognhrqixoidjqidxsixcihd,ilogieqrrirdtxouek
jlbbqtqgidjld,irq.qtleidhbqr,idjqibldqirdheeijxeghouidjqitxgilrivqcxtqm
Djqoiuxhouidjtx ujirxbqirbleeirdtlouqibxdhxorinhdjihd—njqdjqt
hoghrsqorlveqidxidjqibluoqdhwhouixcidjqirdqqe,ixtibqtqekihodqogqgidx
l ubqodidjqilnqixcidjqiatqn,ihri oaqtdlho—jqialeeqgicxtiehoqoidjtqlg;
logibx.houidxidjqivhoolaeq,irehssqgix didjqidnxitq.qtrqgioqqgeqridjqtq,
logijxthwxodleekir rsqogqgidjqirlhe-oqqgeqivkihdribhggeq,ix.qtixoqixc
djqiaxbslrr-altgrmiLdichtrd,idjqirdqqeinqoditx ogilogitx og,iz h.qthou
logi.hvtldhouildiqhdjqtiqog;iv dildielrdihdirqddeqgidxihdriselaq,injqo
Ljlv,injxijlgivqqoihodqodekinldajhouicxtidjhritqr ed,irdqssqgictloyek
vlayictxbidjqivhoolaeq,ilogisxhodhouijhrirdtqdajqgiltbidxnltgrihd,
qpaelhbqg,—“Exxyikq,icxtikx trqe.qr,ihciLjlvivqioxdiextgixcidjqieq.qe
exlgrdxoq!iDjqir oihriQlrd,ilogidjldiaxbslrrirnqltrihd!”

Xoqilcdqtiloxdjqtidjqkisqqtqgiho,icxtioxdjhouiv didjqhtixnoiqkqriax eg
sqtr lgqir ajihuoxtloaqilridjqhtr,ilogixoqilcdqtiloxdjqtidjqkire oy
lnlkm

Hoijhrichqtkiqkqrixciraxtoilogidth bsj,ikx idjqoirlniLjlvihoileeijhr
cldleisthgqm


AJLSDQTi125miDjqiExuilogiEhoqm

NjheqioxnidjqicldqgiSqz xgijlgivqqoirxiexouilcexldidjhri.xkluq,idjqiexu
logiehoqijlgiv di.qtkirqegxbivqqoihoi rqmiXnhouidxiliaxochgqoditqehloaq
 sxoixdjqtibqlorixcigqdqtbhohouidjqi.qrrqe’riselaq,irxbqibqtajlodbqo,
logiblokinjleqbqo,iqrsqahleekinjqoiat hrhou,injxeekioqueqadidxijql.q
djqiexu;idjx ujildidjqirlbqidhbq,ilogictqz qodekibxtqicxticxtb’rirlyq
djloilokdjhouiqerq,itqu eltekis ddhouigxnoi sxoidjqia rdxbltkireldqidjq
ax trqirdqqtqgivkidjqirjhs,ilrinqeeilridjqistqr bqgil.qtluqitldqixc
stxutqrrhxoiq.qtkijx tmiHdijlgivqqoidj rinhdjidjqiSqz xgmiDjqinxxgqo
tqqeilogilou eltiexuilddlajqgij ou,iexoui odx ajqg,if rdivqoqldjidjq
tlhehouixcidjqilcdqtiv enltyrmiTlhorilogirstlkijlgiglbsqgihd;ir oilog
nhogijlginltsqgihd;ileeidjqiqeqbqodrijlgiaxbvhoqgidxitxdilidjhouidjld
j ouirxihgekmiV dijqqgeqrrixcileeidjhr,ijhribxxgirqhwqgiLjlv,ilrijq
jlssqoqgidxiueloaqi sxoidjqitqqe,ioxdiblokijx trilcdqtidjqibluoqd
raqoq,ilogijqitqbqbvqtqgijxnijhriz lgtlodinlrioxibxtq,ilogitqaleeqgijhr
ctlodhaixldjilvx didjqieq.qeiexuilogiehoqmiDjqirjhsinlrirlhehou
se ouhouek;ilrdqtoidjqivheexnritxeeqgihoithxdrm

“Cxtnltg,idjqtq!iJql.qidjqiexu!”

DnxirqlbqoialbqmiDjqiuxegqo-j qgiDljhdhloilogidjqiuthwwekiBlopblom
“Dlyqidjqitqqe,ixoqixcikq,iH’eeijql.qm”

Djqkinqodidxnltgridjqiqpdtqbqirdqto,ixoidjqirjhs’rieqqirhgq,injqtqidjq
gqay,inhdjidjqixvehz qiqoqtukixcidjqinhog,inlrioxnilebxrdighsshouihodx
djqiatqlbk,irhgqexou-t rjhouirqlm

DjqiBlopbloidxxyidjqitqqe,ilogijxeghouihdijhuji s,ivkidjqistxfqadhou
jlogeq-qogrixcidjqirshogeq,itx oginjhajidjqirsxxeixciehoqitq.xe.qg,irx
rdxxginhdjidjqilou eltiexuijlouhouigxnonltgr,idheeiLjlvilg.loaqgidx
jhbm

Ljlvirdxxgivqcxtqijhb,iloginlriehujdeki onhoghouirxbqidjhtdkixticxtdk
d toridxicxtbilistqehbholtkijlog-axheidxidxrrix.qtvxltg,injqoidjqixeg
Blopblo,injxinlrihodqodekiqkqhouivxdjijhbilogidjqiehoq,iblgqivxegidx
rsqlym

“Rht,iHibhrdt rdihd;idjhriehoqiexxyricltiuxoq,iexouijqldiloginqdijl.q
rsxheqgihdm”

“’Dnheeijxeg,ixegiuqodeqblomiExouijqldiloginqd,ijl.qidjqkirsxheqgidjqq?
Djx irqqb’rdidxijxegmiXt,idt qtisqtjlsr,iehcqijxegridjqq;ioxdidjx ihdm”

“Hijxegidjqirsxxe,irhtmiV dif rdilribkialsdlhoirlkrmiNhdjidjqrqiutqk
jlhtrixcibhoqi’dhrioxdinxtdjinjheqighrs dhou,i’rsqahleekinhdjil
r sqthxt,injx’eeioq’qtiaxocqrrm”

“Njld’ridjld?iDjqtqioxn’rilisldajqgistxcqrrxtihoiZ qqoiOld tq’r
utlohdq-cx ogqgiAxeequq;iv dibqdjhoyrijq’ridxxir vrqt.hqodmiNjqtqinqtd
djx ivxto?”

“HoidjqiehddeqitxaykiHreqixciBlo,irhtm”

“Qpaqeeqod!iDjx ’rdijhdidjqinxtegivkidjldm”

“Hiyoxnioxd,irht,iv diHinlrivxtoidjqtqm”

“HoidjqiHreqixciBlo,ijqk?iNqee,idjqixdjqtinlk,ihd’riuxxgmiJqtq’riliblo
ctxbiBlo;ilibloivxtoihoixoaqihogqsqogqodiBlo,ilogioxni oblooqgixciBlo;
njhajihrir ayqgiho—vkinjld?i sinhdjidjqitqqe!iDjqigqlg,ivehoginlee
v ddrileeihoz hthouijqlgrildielrdmi sinhdjihd!iRxm”

Djqiexuinlrijql.qgmiDjqiexxrqiaxheritlshgekirdtlhujdqoqgix dihoiliexou
gtluuhouiehoqilrdqto,ilogidjqo,ihordlodek,idjqitqqeivquloidxinjhtemiHo
d to,ifqtyhouekitlhrqgilogiexnqtqgivkidjqitxeehouivheexnr,idjqidxnhou
tqrhrdloaqixcidjqiexuial rqgidjqixegitqqebloidxirdluuqtirdtlouqekm

“Jxegijltg!”

Rols!idjqix.qtrdtlhoqgiehoqirluuqgigxnoihoixoqiexouicqrdxxo;idjq
d uuhouiexuinlriuxoqm

“Hiat rjidjqiz lgtlod,idjqidj ogqtid toridjqioqqgeqr,ilogioxnidjqiblg
rqlisltdridjqiexu-ehoqmiV diLjlvialoibqogileemiJl eihoijqtq,iDljhdhlo;
tqqei s,iBlopblomiLogiexxyikq,ieqdidjqialtsqodqtiblyqiloxdjqtiexu,ilog
bqogidjx idjqiehoqmiRqqidxihdm”

“Djqtqijqiuxqrioxn;idxijhbioxdjhou’rijlssqoqg;iv didxibq,idjqiryqnqt
rqqbriexxrqohouix dixcidjqibhggeqixcidjqinxtegmiJl eiho,ijl eiho,
Dljhdhlo!iDjqrqiehoqrit oinjxeq,iloginjhtehouix d:iaxbqihoivtxyqo,ilog
gtluuhouirexnmiJl,iShs?iaxbqidxijqes;iqj,iShs?”

“Shs?injxbialeeikqiShs?iShsif bsqgictxbidjqinjleq-vxldmiShs’ribhrrhoum
Eqd’rirqqioxnihcikqijl.qo’dichrjqgijhbi sijqtq,ichrjqtblomiHdigtlur
jltg;iHiu qrrijq’rijxeghouixomiFqtyijhb,iDljhdh!iFqtyijhbixcc;inqijl e
hoioxiaxnltgrijqtqmiJx!idjqtq’rijhriltbif rdivtqlyhouinldqtmiLijldajqd!
lijldajqd!ia dihdixcc—nqijl eihoioxiaxnltgrijqtqmiAlsdlhoiLjlv!irht,
rht!ijqtq’riShs,idtkhouidxiuqdixoivxltgilulhom”

“Sqlaq,idjx iatlwkiexxo,”iathqgidjqiBlopblo,irqhwhouijhbivkidjqiltbm
“Lnlkictxbidjqiz ltdqt-gqay!”

“Djqiutqldqtihghxdiq.qtiraxegridjqieqrrqt,”ib ddqtqgiLjlv,ilg.loahoum
“Jlogrixccictxbidjldijxehoqrr!iNjqtqirlkqrdidjx iShsinlr,ivxk?

“Lrdqtoidjqtq,irht,ilrdqto!iEx!iex!”

“Loginjxiltdidjx ,ivxk?iHirqqioxdibkitqceqadhxoihoidjqi.lalodis sherixc
djkiqkqrmiXjiUxg!idjldibloirjx egivqilidjhouicxtihbbxtdleirx eridx
rhq.qidjtx uj!iNjxiltdidjx ,ivxk?”

“Vqee-vxk,irht;irjhs’r-athqt;ighou,igxou,ighou!iShs!iShs!iShs!iXoq
j ogtqgisx ogrixciaelkitqnltgicxtiShs;ich.qicqqdijhuj—exxyr
axnltgek—z hayqrdiyoxnoivkidjld!iGhou,igxou,ighou!iNjx’rirqqoiShsidjq
axnltg?”

“Djqtqialoivqioxijqltdrilvx.qidjqiroxn-ehoqmiXj,ikqictxwqoijql.qor!
exxyigxnoijqtqmiKqighgivquqdidjhrie ayeqrriajheg,ilogijl.qilvlogxoqg
jhb,ikqiatqldh.qiehvqtdhoqrmiJqtq,ivxk;iLjlv’rialvhoirjleeivqiShs’r
jxbqijqoaqcxtdj,injheqiLjlvieh.qrmiDjx idx ajqrdibkihobxrdiaqodtq,ivxk;
djx iltdidhqgidxibqivkiaxtgrinx.qoixcibkijqltd-rdthourmiAxbq,ieqd’r
gxnom”

“Njld’ridjhr?ijqtq’ri.qe.qdirjlty-ryho,”ihodqodekiulwhouildiLjlv’r
jlog,ilogicqqehouihdmi“Lj,ioxn,ijlgisxxtiShsiv dicqedirxiyhogilidjhou
lridjhr,isqtjlsrijqijlgioq’qtivqqoiexrd!iDjhrirqqbridxibq,irht,ilril
blo-txsq;irxbqdjhouidjldinqlyirx eriblkijxegivkmiXj,irht,ieqdixegiSqtdj
oxniaxbqilogith.qdidjqrqidnxijlogridxuqdjqt;idjqivelayixoqinhdjidjq
njhdq,icxtiHinheeioxdieqdidjhriuxm”

“Xj,ivxk,ioxtinheeiHidjqq,i oeqrriHirjx egidjqtqvkigtluidjqqidxinxtrq
jxttxtridjloiltqijqtqmiAxbq,idjqo,idxibkialvhomiEx!ikqivqehq.qtriho
uxgrileeiuxxgoqrr,ilogihoibloileeihee,iexikx !irqqidjqixbohrahqodiuxgr
xveh.hx rixcir ccqthouiblo;ilogiblo,idjx ujihghxdha,ilogiyoxnhouioxd
njldijqigxqr,ikqdic eeixcidjqirnqqdidjhourixciex.qilogiutldhd gqmiAxbq!
Hicqqeistx gqtieqlghouidjqqivkidjkivelayijlog,idjloidjx ujiHiutlrsqgilo
Qbsqtxt’r!”

“Djqtqiuxidnxiglcdixoqrioxn,”ib ddqtqgidjqixegiBlopblomi“Xoqiglcdinhdj
rdtqoudj,idjqixdjqtiglcdinhdjinqlyoqrrmiV dijqtq’ridjqiqogixcidjq
txddqoiehoq—leeigthsshou,idxxmiBqogihd,iqj?iHidjhoyinqijlgivqrdijl.qil
oqniehoqiledxuqdjqtmiH’eeirqqiBtmiRd vvilvx dihdm”


AJLSDQTi126miDjqiEhcq-V xkm

Rdqqthouioxnirx dj-qlrdnltgivkiLjlv’rieq.qeeqgirdqqe,ilogijqtistxutqrr
rxeqekigqdqtbhoqgivkiLjlv’rieq.qeiexuilogiehoq;idjqiSqz xgijqegixoijqt
sldjidxnltgridjqiQz ldxtmiBlyhouirxiexouilislrrluqidjtx ujir aj
 octqz qodqginldqtr,igqratkhouioxirjhsr,ilogiqtqiexou,irhgqnlkr
hbsqeeqgivki o.ltkhouidtlgqinhogr,ix.qtinl.qribxoxdxox rekibheg;ilee
djqrqirqqbqgidjqirdtlouqialebidjhouristqe ghouirxbqithxdx rilog
gqrsqtldqiraqoqm

Ldielrd,injqoidjqirjhsigtqnioqltidxidjqix dryhtdr,ilrihdinqtq,ixcidjq
Qz ldxthleichrjhou-utx og,ilogihoidjqigqqsigltyoqrridjldiuxqrivqcxtq
djqiglno,inlrirlhehouivkiliae rdqtixcitxaykihreqdr;idjqinldaj—djqo
jqlgqgivkiCelry—nlrirdltdeqgivkiliatkirxiselhodh.qekinhegilog
 oqltdjek—ehyqijlec-ltdha eldqginlhehourixcidjqiujxrdrixcileeiJqtxg’r
b tgqtqgiHooxaqodr—djldixoqilogilee,idjqkirdltdqgictxbidjqhtitq.qthqr,
logicxtidjqirslaqixcirxbqibxbqodrirdxxg,ixtirld,ixtieqloqgilee
dtlorchpqgekiehrdqohou,iehyqidjqialt.qgiTxbloirel.q,injheqidjldinheg
atkitqblhoqginhdjhoijqlthoumiDjqiAjthrdhloixtiah.hehwqgisltdixcidjq
atqnirlhgihdinlribqtblhgr,ilogirj ggqtqg;iv didjqisluloijltsxxoqqtr
tqblhoqgi olssleeqgmiKqdidjqiutqkiBlopblo—djqixegqrdiblthoqtixc
lee—gqaeltqgidjldidjqinhegidjtheehouirx ogridjldinqtqijqltg,inqtqidjq
.xhaqrixcioqnekigtxnoqgibqoihoidjqirqlm

Vqexnihoijhrijlbbxay,iLjlvighgioxdijqltixcidjhridheeiutqkiglno,injqoijq
albqidxidjqigqay;ihdinlridjqoitqax odqgidxijhbivkiCelry,ioxd
 olaaxbslohqginhdjijhodqgigltyibqlohourmiJqijxeexnekiel ujqg,ilogidj r
qpselhoqgidjqinxogqtm

Djxrqitxaykihrelogridjqirjhsijlgislrrqginqtqidjqitqrxtdixciutqld
o bvqtrixcirqler,ilogirxbqikx ouirqleridjldijlgiexrdidjqhtiglbr,ixt
rxbqiglbridjldijlgiexrdidjqhtia vr,ib rdijl.qithrqoiohujidjqirjhsilog
yqsdiaxbslokinhdjijqt,iatkhouilogirxvvhouinhdjidjqhtij bloirxtdixc
nlhemiV didjhrixoekidjqibxtqilccqadqgirxbqixcidjqb,ivqal rqibxrd
blthoqtriajqthrjili.qtkir sqtrdhdhx ricqqehouilvx dirqler,ilthrhouioxd
xoekictxbidjqhtisqa ehltidxoqrinjqoihoighrdtqrr,iv dilerxictxbidjq
j bloiexxyixcidjqhtitx ogijqlgrilogirqbh-hodqeehuqodiclaqr,irqqo
sqqthoueki sthrhouictxbidjqinldqtilexourhgqmiHoidjqirql,i ogqtiaqtdlho
ahta brdloaqr,irqlerijl.qibxtqidjloixoaqivqqoibhrdlyqoicxtibqom

V didjqivxghourixcidjqiatqninqtqigqrdhoqgidxitqaqh.qilibxrdisel rhveq
axochtbldhxoihoidjqicldqixcixoqixcidjqhtio bvqtidjldibxtohoumiLd
r o-thrqidjhribloinqodictxbijhrijlbbxayidxijhriblrd-jqlgildidjqicxtq;
loginjqdjqtihdinlridjldijqinlrioxdikqdijlecinlyqgictxbijhrireqqsi(cxt
rlhextrirxbqdhbqriuxilexcdihoilidtlorhdhxoirdldq),injqdjqtihdinlridj r
nhdjidjqiblo,idjqtqihrioxnioxidqeehou;iv d,ivqidjldilrihdiblk,ijqijlg
oxdivqqoiexouildijhrisqtaj,injqoiliatkinlrijqltg—liatkilogil
t rjhou—logiexxyhoui s,idjqkirlnilicleehouisjlodxbihoidjqilht;ilog
exxyhouigxno,iliehddeqidxrrqgijqlsixcinjhdqiv vveqrihoidjqive qixcidjq
rqlm

Djqiehcq-v xk—liexouireqogqtialry—nlrigtxssqgictxbidjqirdqto,injqtqihd
lenlkrij ouixvqghqodidxilia oohouirsthou;iv dioxijlogitxrqidxirqhwqihd,
logidjqir oijl.houiexouivqldi sxoidjhrialryihdijlgirjt oyqo,irxidjldihd
rexnekicheeqg,ilogidjldisltajqginxxgilerxicheeqgildihdriq.qtkisxtq;ilog
djqird ggqgihtxo-vx ogialryicxeexnqgidjqirlhextidxidjqivxddxb,ilrihcidx
khqegijhbijhrisheexn,idjx ujihoirxxdjiv dilijltgixoqm

Logidj ridjqichtrdibloixcidjqiSqz xgidjldibx odqgidjqiblrdidxiexxyix d
cxtidjqiNjhdqiNjleq,ixoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq’rixnoisqa ehltiutx og;idjldiblo
nlrirnleexnqgi sihoidjqigqqsmiV dicqn,isqtjlsr,idjx ujdixcidjldildidjq
dhbqmiHogqqg,ihoirxbqirxtd,idjqkinqtqioxdiuthq.qgildidjhriq.qod,ild
eqlrdilrilisxtdqod;icxtidjqkitqultgqgihd,ioxdilrilicxtqrjlgxnhouixc
q.heihoidjqic d tq,iv dilridjqic echebqodixciloiq.heiletqlgkistqrluqgm
Djqkigqaeltqgidjldioxnidjqkiyoqnidjqitqlrxoixcidjxrqinhegirjthqyridjqk
jlgijqltgidjqiohujdivqcxtqmiV dilulhoidjqixegiBlopbloirlhgiolkm

Djqiexrdiehcq-v xkinlrioxnidxivqitqselaqg;iRdltv ayinlrightqadqgidxirqq
dxihd;iv dilrioxialryixcir cchahqodiehujdoqrriax egivqicx og,ilogilriho
djqicq.qthrjiqluqtoqrrixcinjldirqqbqgidjqilsstxlajhouiathrhrixcidjq
.xkluq,ileeijlogrinqtqihbsldhqodixcilokidxheiv dinjldinlrightqadek
axooqadqginhdjihdricholeiqog,injldq.qtidjldibhujdistx.qidxivq;
djqtqcxtq,idjqkinqtqiuxhouidxieql.qidjqirjhs’rirdqtoi ostx.hgqginhdjil
v xk,injqoivkiaqtdlhoirdtlouqirhuorilogiho qogxqriZ qqz quijhodqgil
jhodiaxoaqtohouijhriaxcchom

“Liehcq-v xkixciliaxccho!”iathqgiRdltv ay,irdltdhoum

“Tldjqtiz qqt,idjld,iHirjx egirlk,”irlhgiRd vvm

“Hdinheeiblyqiliuxxgiqox ujixoq,”irlhgiCelry,i“djqialtsqodqtijqtqialo
lttlouqihdiqlrhekm”

“Vthouihdi s;idjqtq’rioxdjhouiqerqicxtihd,”irlhgiRdltv ay,ilcdqtil
bqeloajxekisl rqmi“Thuihd,ialtsqodqt;igxioxdiexxyildibqirx—djqiaxccho,
HibqlomiGxrdidjx ijqltibq?iThuihdm”

“LogirjleeiHiolheigxnoidjqiehg,irht?”ibx.houijhrijlogilrinhdjilijlbbqtm

“Lkqm”

“LogirjleeiHial eyidjqirqlbr,irht?”ibx.houijhrijlogilrinhdjil
al eyhou-htxom

“Lkqm”

“LogirjleeiHidjqoislkix.qtidjqirlbqinhdjishdaj,irht?”ibx.houijhrijlog
lrinhdjilishdaj-sxdm

“Lnlk!injldisxrrqrrqridjqqidxidjhr?iBlyqiliehcq-v xkixcidjqiaxccho,ilog
oxibxtqm—BtmiRd vv,iBtmiCelry,iaxbqicxtnltginhdjibqm”

“Jqiuxqrixccihoilij ccmiDjqinjxeqijqialoiqog tq;ildidjqisltdrijq
vl eyrmiOxniHigxo’diehyqidjhrmiHiblyqiliequicxtiAlsdlhoiLjlv,ilogijq
nqltrihdiehyqiliuqodeqblo;iv diHiblyqilivlogvxpicxtiZ qqz qu,ilogijq
nxo’dis dijhrijqlgihodxihdmiLtqileeibkislhoridxiuxicxtioxdjhouinhdj
djldiaxccho?iLogioxniH’bixtgqtqgidxiblyqiliehcq-v xkixcihdmiHd’riehyq
d tohouiloixegiaxld;iuxhouidxivthouidjqiceqrjixoidjqixdjqtirhgqioxnmiH
gxo’diehyqidjhriaxvvehouirxtdixciv rhoqrr—Higxo’diehyqihdildilee;ihd’r
 oghuohchqg;ihd’rioxdibkiselaqmiEqdidhoyqtr’ivtldrigxidhoyqthour;inq
ltqidjqhtivqddqtrmiHiehyqidxidlyqihoijlogioxoqiv diaeqlo,i.htuho,
clht-log-rz ltqibldjqbldhaleifxvr,irxbqdjhouidjlditqu eltekivquhorild
djqivquhoohou,ilogihrildidjqibhggeqinjqoibhgnlk,ilogiaxbqridxiloiqogild
djqiaxoae rhxo;ioxdiliaxvveqt’rifxv,idjld’rildiloiqogihoidjqibhggeq,
logildidjqivquhoohouildidjqiqogmiHd’ridjqixeginxblo’ridthayridxivq
uh.houiaxvvehouifxvrmiExtg!injldiloilccqadhxoileeixeginxbqoijl.qicxt
dhoyqtrmiHiyoxniloixeginxbloixcirhpdk-ch.qinjxitloilnlkinhdjil
vleg-jqlgqgikx ouidhoyqtixoaqmiLogidjld’ridjqitqlrxoiHioq.qtinx eginxty
cxtiexoqekinhgxnixeginxbqoilrjxtq,injqoiHiyqsdibkifxv-rjxsihoidjq
.hoqkltg;idjqkibhujdijl.qidlyqoihdihodxidjqhtiexoqekixegijqlgridxit o
xccinhdjibqmiV dijqhuj-jx!idjqtqiltqioxialsrildirqliv diroxn-alsrmiEqd
bqirqqmiOlheigxnoidjqiehg;ial eyidjqirqlbr;islkix.qtidjqirlbqinhdj
shdaj;ivlddqoidjqbigxnoidhujd,ilogijlouihdinhdjidjqirols-rsthouix.qt
djqirjhs’rirdqtomiNqtqiq.qtir ajidjhourigxoqivqcxtqinhdjiliaxccho?iRxbq
r sqtrdhdhx rixegialtsqodqtr,ioxn,inx egivqidhqgi sihoidjqithuuhou,iqtq
djqkinx egigxidjqifxvmiV diH’biblgqixciyoxddkiLtxxrdxxyijqbexay;iH
gxo’div guqmiAt ssqtqginhdjiliaxccho!iRlhehouilvx dinhdjiliutl.q-kltg
dtlk!iV dioq.qtibhogmiNqinxtyqtrihoinxxgriblyqivthgle-vqgrdqlgrilog
altg-dlveqr,ilrinqeeilriaxcchorilogijqltrqrmiNqinxtyivkidjqibxodj,ixt
vkidjqifxv,ixtivkidjqistxchd;ioxdicxti ridxilryidjqinjkiloginjqtqcxtq
xcix tinxty,i oeqrrihdivqidxxiaxocx ogqgiaxvvehou,ilogidjqoinqirdlrjihd
hcinqialomiJqb!iH’eeigxidjqifxv,ioxn,idqogqtekmiH’eeijl.qibq—eqd’r
rqq—jxniblokihoidjqirjhs’riaxbslok,ileeidxeg?iV diH’.qicxtuxddqomiLok
nlk,iH’eeijl.qibqidjhtdkirqsltldq,iD ty’r-jqlgqgiehcq-ehoqr,iqlajidjtqq
cqqdiexouijlouhouileeitx ogidxidjqiaxcchomiDjqo,ihcidjqij eeiuxigxno,
djqtq’eeivqidjhtdkieh.qekicqeexnrileeichujdhouicxtixoqiaxccho,ilirhujd
oxdirqqoi.qtkixcdqoivqoqldjidjqir o!iAxbqijlbbqt,ial eyhou-htxo,
shdaj-sxd,ilogibltehou-rshyq!iEqd’ridxihdm”


AJLSDQTi127miDjqiGqaym

_Djqiaxcchoielhgi sxoidnxiehoq-d vr,ivqdnqqoidjqi.haq-vqoajilogidjq
xsqoijldajnlk;idjqiAltsqodqtial eyhouihdrirqlbr;idjqirdthouixcidnhrdqg
xly birexneki onhoghouictxbilieltuqitxeeixcihdiselaqgihoidjqivxrxbixc
jhrictxaym—Ljlviaxbqrirexnekictxbidjqialvho-ulounlk,ilogijqltriShs
cxeexnhouijhbm_

“Vlay,ielg;iHinheeivqinhdjikqilulhoistqrqodekmiJqiuxqr!iOxdidjhrijlog
axbsehqrinhdjibkij bxtibxtqiuqohleekidjloidjldivxkm—Bhggeqilhreqixcil
aj taj!iNjld’rijqtq?”

“Ehcq-v xk,irhtmiBtmiRdltv ay’rixtgqtrmiXj,iexxy,irht!iVqnltqidjq
jldajnlk!”

“Djloyikq,iblomiDjkiaxcchoiehqrijlogkidxidjqi.l edm”

“Rht?iDjqijldajnlk?ixj!iRxihdigxqr,irht,irxihdigxqrm”

“Ltdioxdidjx idjqiequ-blyqt?iExxy,ighgioxdidjhrird bsiaxbqictxbidjk
rjxs?”

“Hivqehq.qihdighg,irht;igxqridjqicqtt eqirdlog,irht?”

“Nqeeiqox ujmiV diltdidjx ioxdilerxidjqi ogqtdlyqt?”

“Lkq,irht;iHisldajqgi sidjhridjhouijqtqilriliaxcchoicxtiZ qqz qu;iv d
djqk’.qirqdibqioxnidxid tohouihdihodxirxbqdjhouiqerqm”

“Djqoidqeeibq;iltdidjx ioxdiloilttlod,ilee-utlrshou,ihodqtbqggehou,
bxoxsxehrhou,ijqldjqohrjixegiralbs,idxivqixoqiglkiblyhouiequr,ilogidjq
oqpdiglkiaxcchoridxiaelsidjqbiho,ilogikqdilulhoiehcq-v xkrix dixcidjxrq
rlbqiaxcchor?iDjx iltdilri osthoahseqgilridjqiuxgr,ilogilrib ajixcil
flay-xc-lee-dtlgqrm”

“V diHigxioxdibqloilokdjhou,irhtmiHigxilriHigxm”

“DjqiuxgrilulhomiJltyikq,igxrdidjx ioxdiq.qtirhouinxtyhouilvx dil
axccho?iDjqiDhdlor,idjqkirlk,ij bbqgiroldajqrinjqoiajhsshouix didjq
atldqtricxti.xealoxqr;ilogidjqiutl.q-ghuuqtihoidjqiselkirhour,irslgqiho
jlogmiGxrdidjx ioq.qt?”

“Rhou,irht?iGxiHirhou?iXj,iH’bihoghccqtqodiqox uj,irht,icxtidjld;iv d
djqitqlrxoinjkidjqiutl.q-ghuuqtiblgqib rhaib rdijl.qivqqoivqal rqidjqtq
nlrioxoqihoijhrirslgq,irhtmiV didjqial eyhouibleeqdihric eeixcihdmiJlty
dxihdm”

“Lkq,ilogidjld’rivqal rqidjqiehgidjqtq’rilirx oghou-vxltg;iloginjldiho
leeidjhouriblyqridjqirx oghou-vxltgihridjhr—djqtq’riol ujdivqoqldjmiLog
kqd,iliaxcchoinhdjilivxgkihoihdithouristqddkib ajidjqirlbq,iAltsqodqtm
Jlrdidjx iq.qtijqesqgialttkilivhqt,ilogijqltgidjqiaxcchoiyoxayilulhord
djqiaj tajkltgiuldq,iuxhouiho?

“Clhdj,irht,iH’.q——”

“Clhdj?iNjld’ridjld?”

“Njk,iclhdj,irht,ihd’rixoekilirxtdixciqpaelbldhxo-ehyq—djld’rilee,
rhtm”

“ b,i b;iuxixom”

“Hinlrilvx didxirlk,irht,idjld——”

“Ltdidjx ilirhey-nxtb?iGxrdidjx irshoidjkixnoirjtx gix dixcidjkrqec?
Exxyildidjkivxrxb!iGqrsldaj!ilogiuqdidjqrqidtlsrix dixcirhujdm”

“JqiuxqrilcdmiDjldinlrir ggqo,ioxn;iv dirz leeriaxbqir ggqoihoijxd
eldhd gqrmiH’.qijqltgidjldidjqiHreqixciLevqblteq,ixoqixcidjq
Uleehsluxr,ihria divkidjqiQz ldxtithujdihoidjqibhggeqmiRqqbridxibqirxbq
rxtdixciQz ldxtia drikxoixegiblo,idxx,ithujdihoijhribhggeqmiJq’rilenlkr
 ogqtidjqiEhoq—chqtkijxd,iHidqeeikq!iJq’riexxyhouidjhrinlk—axbq,ixly b;
z haymiJqtqinqiuxilulhomiDjhrinxxgqoibleeqdihridjqiaxty,ilogiH’bidjq
stxcqrrxtixcib rhaleiuelrrqr—dls,idls!”

(_Ljlvidxijhbrqec_m)

“Djqtq’rilirhujd!iDjqtq’rilirx og!iDjqiutqkjqlgqginxxgsqayqtidlsshou
djqijxeexnidtqq!iVehogilogig bvibhujdinqeeivqiqo.hqgioxnmiRqq!idjld
djhouitqrdrixoidnxiehoq-d vr,ic eeixcidxn-ehoqrmiLibxrdiblehahx rinlu,
djldicqeexnmiTld-dld!iRxiblo’rirqaxogridhay!iXj!ijxnihbbldqthleiltqilee
bldqthler!iNjldidjhouritqleiltqidjqtq,iv dihbsxogqtlveqidjx ujdr?iJqtq
oxn’ridjqi.qtkigtqlgqgirkbvxeixciuthbigqldj,ivkilibqtqijls,iblgqidjq
qpstqrrh.qirhuoixcidjqijqesilogijxsqixcibxrdiqoglouqtqgiehcqmiL
ehcq-v xkixciliaxccho!iGxqrihdiuxic tdjqt?iAloihdivqidjldihoirxbq
rshthd leirqorqidjqiaxcchoihr,ilcdqtilee,iv diloihbbxtdlehdk-stqrqt.qt!
H’eeidjhoyixcidjldmiV dioxmiRxicltiuxoqilbiHihoidjqigltyirhgqixciqltdj,
djldihdrixdjqtirhgq,idjqidjqxtqdhaivthujdixoq,irqqbriv di oaqtdlho
dnhehujdidxibqmiNheeikqioq.qtijl.qigxoq,iAltsqodqt,inhdjidjldilaa trqg
rx og?iHiuxivqexn;ieqdibqioxdirqqidjldidjhouijqtqinjqoiHitqd toilulhom
Oxn,idjqo,iShs,inq’eeidleyidjhrix.qt;iHigxir ayibxrdinxogtx r
sjhexrxsjhqrictxbidjqq!iRxbqi oyoxnoiaxog hdrictxbidjqi oyoxnoinxtegr
b rdiqbsdkihodxidjqq!”


AJLSDQTi128miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqiTlajqem

Oqpdiglk,ilieltuqirjhs,idjqiTlajqe,inlrigqrathqg,ivqlthouightqadekigxno
 sxoidjqiSqz xg,ileeijqtirsltridjhayekiae rdqthouinhdjibqomiLdidjqidhbq
djqiSqz xginlriblyhouiuxxgirsqqgidjtx ujidjqinldqt;iv dilridjq
vtxlg-nhouqginhognltgirdtlouqtirjxdiohujidxijqt,idjqivxlrdc eirlherilee
cqeeidxuqdjqtilriveloyivelggqtridjldiltqiv trd,ilogileeiehcqiceqgictxb
djqirbhddqoij eem

“Vlgioqnr;irjqivthourivlgioqnr,”ib ddqtqgidjqixegiBlopblomiV diqtqijqt
axbblogqt,injx,inhdjidt bsqdidxibx dj,irdxxgi sihoijhrivxld;iqtqijq
ax egijxsqc eekijlhe,iLjlv’ri.xhaqinlrijqltgm

“JlrdirqqoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”

“Lkq,ikqrdqtglkmiJl.qikqirqqoilinjleq-vxldilgthcd?”

Djtxddehouijhrifxk,iLjlvioquldh.qekilornqtqgidjhri oqpsqadqgiz qrdhxo;
loginx egidjqoijl.qiclhoivxltgqgidjqirdtlouqt,injqoidjqirdtlouqt
alsdlhoijhbrqec,ijl.houirdxssqgijhri.qrrqe’rinlk,inlrirqqoigqraqoghou
jqtirhgqmiLicqniyqqois eer,ilogijhrivxld-jxxyirxxoiaehoajqgidjq
Sqz xg’riblho-ajlhor,ilogijqirstlouidxidjqigqaymiHbbqghldqekijqinlr
tqaxuohrqgivkiLjlvicxtiliOlod ayqdqtijqiyoqnmiV dioxicxtbleirle dldhxo
nlriqpajlouqgm

“Njqtqinlrijq?—oxdiyheeqg!—oxdiyheeqg!”iathqgiLjlv,iaexrqekilg.loahoum
“Jxninlrihd?”

Hdirqqbqgidjldirxbqnjldieldqixoidjqilcdqtoxxoixcidjqiglkistq.hx r,
njheqidjtqqixcidjqirdtlouqt’rivxldrinqtqiqouluqginhdjilirjxleixc
njleqr,injhajijlgieqgidjqbirxbqicx tixtich.qibheqrictxbidjqirjhs;ilog
njheqidjqkinqtqikqdihoirnhcdiajlrqidxinhognltg,idjqinjhdqij bsilogijqlg
xciBxvkiGhayijlgir ggqoekiexxbqgi six dixcidjqinldqt,ioxdi.qtkicltidx
eqqnltg;injqtq sxo,idjqicx tdjithuuqgivxld—litqrqt.qgixoq—jlgivqqo
hordlodekiexnqtqgihoiajlrqmiLcdqtiliyqqoirlheivqcxtqidjqinhog,idjhr
cx tdjivxld—djqirnhcdqrdiyqqeqgixcilee—rqqbqgidxijl.qir aaqqgqgiho
clrdqohou—ldieqlrd,ilrinqeeilridjqibloildidjqiblrd-jqlgiax egidqee
lokdjhouilvx dihdmiHoidjqighrdloaqijqirlnidjqighbhohrjqgigxddqgivxld;
logidjqoilirnhcdiueqlbixciv vvehouinjhdqinldqt;ilogilcdqtidjldioxdjhou
bxtq;injqoaqihdinlriaxoae gqgidjldidjqirdthayqoinjleqib rdijl.q
hogqchohdqekit oilnlkinhdjijhris tr qtr,ilrixcdqoijlssqormiDjqtqinlr
rxbqilsstqjqorhxo,iv dioxisxrhdh.qileltb,ilrikqdmiDjqitqaleeirhuoler
nqtqiselaqgihoidjqithuuhou;igltyoqrrialbqixo;ilogicxtaqgidxishayi sijqt
djtqqicltidxinhognltgivxldr—qtqiuxhouihoiz qrdixcidjqicx tdjixoqihoidjq
stqahrqekixssxrhdqightqadhxo—djqirjhsijlgioxdixoekivqqoioqaqrrhdldqgidx
eql.qidjldivxldidxihdricldqidheeioqltibhgohujd,iv d,icxtidjqidhbq,idx
hoatqlrqijqtighrdloaqictxbihdmiV didjqitqrdixcijqtiatqnivqhouildielrd
rlcqilvxltg,irjqiatxngqgileeirlhe—rd orlheixoird orlhe—lcdqtidjq
bhrrhouivxld;iyhogehouilichtqihoijqtidtk-sxdricxtilivqlaxo;ilogiq.qtk
xdjqtibloilexcdixoidjqiexxy-x dmiV didjx ujinjqoirjqijlgidj rirlheqgil
r cchahqodighrdloaqidxiulhoidjqistqr bqgiselaqixcidjqilvrqodixoqrinjqo
elrdirqqo;idjx ujirjqidjqoisl rqgidxiexnqtijqtirsltqivxldridxis eeilee
ltx ogijqt;ilogioxdichoghouilokdjhou,ijlgilulhoiglrjqgixo;ilulho
sl rqg,ilogiexnqtqgijqtivxldr;ilogidjx ujirjqijlgidj riaxodho qgigxhou
dheeiglkehujd;ikqdioxdidjqieqlrdiuehbsrqixcidjqibhrrhouiyqqeijlgivqqo
rqqom

Djqirdxtkidxeg,idjqirdtlouqtiAlsdlhoihbbqghldqekinqodixoidxitq.qleijhr
xvfqadihoivxltghouidjqiSqz xgmiJqigqrhtqgidjldirjhsidxi ohdqinhdjijhr
xnoihoidjqirqltaj;ivkirlhehouix.qtidjqirqlirxbqicx tixtich.qibheqr
lsltd,ixoisltleeqeiehoqr,ilogirxirnqqshouiligx veqijxthwxo,ilrihdinqtqm

“Hinheeinluqtirxbqdjhouioxn,”injhrsqtqgiRd vvidxiCelry,i“djldirxbqixoq
hoidjldibhrrhouivxldinxtqixccidjldiAlsdlho’rivqrdiaxld;iblkjls,ijhr
nldaj—jq’rirxia trqgilophx ridxiuqdihdivlaymiNjxiq.qtijqltgixcidnx
shx rinjleq-rjhsriat hrhouilcdqtixoqibhrrhouinjleq-vxldihoidjqijqhujd
xcidjqinjlehouirqlrxo?iRqq,iCelry,ixoekirqqijxnisleqijqiexxyr—sleqiho
djqi.qtkiv ddxorixcijhriqkqr—exxy—hdinlro’didjqiaxld—hdib rdijl.qivqqo
djq—”

“Bkivxk,ibkixnoivxkihrilbxouidjqbmiCxtiUxg’rirlyq—Hivqu,iH
axof tq”—jqtqiqpaelhbqgidjqirdtlouqtiAlsdlhoidxiLjlv,injxidj ricltijlg
v dihahekitqaqh.qgijhrisqdhdhxomi“Cxtiqhujd-log-cxtdkijx trieqdibq
ajltdqtikx tirjhs—Hinheeiuelgekislkicxtihd,ilogitx ogekislkicxtihd—hc
djqtqivqioxixdjqtinlk—cxtiqhujd-log-cxtdkijx trixoek—xoekidjld—kx 
b rd,ixj,ikx ib rd,ilogikx i_rjlee_igxidjhridjhoum”

“Jhrirxo!”iathqgiRd vv,i“xj,ihd’rijhrirxoijq’riexrd!iHidlyqivlayidjq
axldiloginldaj—njldirlkriLjlv?iNqib rdirl.qidjldivxkm”

“Jq’rigtxnoqginhdjidjqitqrdixoi’qb,ielrdiohujd,”irlhgidjqixegiBlop
rlhextirdloghouivqjhogidjqb;i“Hijqltg;ileeixcikqijqltgidjqhtirshthdrm”

Oxn,ilrihdirjxtdekid toqgix d,injldiblgqidjhrihoahgqodixcidjqiTlajqe’r
djqibxtqibqeloajxek,inlridjqiahta brdloaq,idjldioxdixoekinlrixoqixcidjq
Alsdlho’rirxorilbxouidjqio bvqtixcidjqibhrrhouivxld’riatqn;iv dilbxou
djqio bvqtixcidjqixdjqtivxld’riatqnr,ildidjqirlbqidhbq,iv dixoidjq
xdjqtijlog,irqsltldqgictxbidjqirjhsig thouidjqigltyi.hahrrhd gqrixcidjq
ajlrq,idjqtqijlgivqqoirdheeiloxdjqtirxo;ilridjldicxtilidhbq,idjq
ntqdajqgicldjqtinlrise ouqgidxidjqivxddxbixcidjqiat qeeqrdisqtseqphdk;
njhajinlrixoekirxe.qgicxtijhbivkijhriajhqcibldq’rihordhoadh.qek
lgxsdhouidjqixtgholtkistxaqg tqixcilinjleq-rjhsihoir ajiqbqtuqoahqr,
djldihr,injqoiselaqgivqdnqqoifqxsltghwqgiv digh.hgqgivxldr,ilenlkridx
shayi sidjqiblfxthdkichtrdmiV didjqialsdlho,icxtirxbqi oyoxno
axordhd dhxoleitqlrxo,ijlgitqctlhoqgictxbibqodhxohouileeidjhr,ilogioxd
dheeicxtaqgidxihdivkiLjlv’rihahoqrrighgijqilee gqidxijhrixoqikqd
bhrrhouivxk;iliehddeqielg,iv didnqe.qikqltrixeg,injxrqicldjqtinhdjidjq
qltoqrdiv di obhruh.houijltghjxxgixciliOlod ayqdqt’risldqtoleiex.q,ijlg
dj riqltekirx ujdidxihohdhldqijhbihoidjqisqtheriloginxogqtrixcil
.xaldhxoilebxrdihbbqbxthleekidjqigqrdhokixcileeijhritlaqmiOxtigxqrihd
 octqz qodekixaa t,idjldiOlod ayqdialsdlhorinheeirqogilirxoixcir aj
dqogqtiluqilnlkictxbidjqb,icxtilistxdtladqgidjtqqixticx tikqltr’i.xkluq
hoirxbqixdjqtirjhsidjloidjqhtixno;irxidjldidjqhtichtrdiyoxneqguqixcil
njleqblo’rialtqqtirjleeivqi oqoqt.ldqgivkilokiajloaqighrselkixcil
cldjqt’riold tleiv di odhbqekisltdhlehdk,ixti og qilsstqjqorh.qoqrrilog
axoaqtom

Bqlodhbq,ioxnidjqirdtlouqtinlrirdheeivqrqqajhouijhrisxxtivxxoixciLjlv;
logiLjlvirdheeirdxxgiehyqiloilo.he,itqaqh.houiq.qtkirjxay,iv dinhdjx d
djqieqlrdiz h.qthouixcijhrixnom

“Hinheeioxdiux,”irlhgidjqirdtlouqt,i“dheeikx irlki_lkq_idxibqmiGxidxibq
lrikx inx egijl.qibqigxidxikx ihoidjqiehyqialrqmiCxti_kx _idxxijl.qil
vxk,iAlsdlhoiLjlv—djx ujiv diliajheg,ilogioqrdehouirlcqekildijxbqioxn—l
ajhegixcikx tixegiluqidxx—Kqr,ikqr,ikx itqeqod;iHirqqihd—t o,it o,ibqo,
oxn,ilogirdlogivkidxirz ltqihoidjqikltgrm”

“L.lrd,”iathqgiLjlv—“dx ajioxdilitxsq-klto”;idjqoihoili.xhaqidjld
stxexouhouekibx egqgiq.qtkinxtg—“AlsdlhoiUltghoqt,iHinheeioxdigxihdm
Q.qoioxniHiexrqidhbqmiUxxg-vkq,iuxxg-vkqmiUxgiveqrrikq,iblo,ilogiblkiH
cxtuh.qibkrqec,iv diHib rdiuxmiBtmiRdltv ay,iexxyildidjqivhoolaeq
nldaj,ilogihoidjtqqibho dqrictxbidjhristqrqodihordlodinltoixccilee
rdtlouqtr:idjqoivtlaqicxtnltgilulho,ilogieqdidjqirjhsirlheilrivqcxtqm”

J tthqgekid tohou,inhdjil.qtdqgiclaq,ijqigqraqogqgihodxijhrialvho,
eql.houidjqirdtlouqialsdlhoidtlorchpqgildidjhri oaxoghdhxoleilogi ddqt
tqfqadhxoixcijhrirxiqltoqrdir hdmiV dirdltdhouictxbijhriqoajlodbqod,
Ultghoqtirheqodekij tthqgidxidjqirhgq;ibxtqicqeeidjloirdqssqgihodxijhr
vxld,ilogitqd toqgidxijhrirjhsm

Rxxoidjqidnxirjhsrigh.qtuqgidjqhtinlyqr;ilogiexouilridjqirdtlouqi.qrrqe
nlrihoi.hqn,irjqinlrirqqoidxiklnijhdjqtilogidjhdjqtildiq.qtkigltyirsxd,
jxnq.qtirblee,ixoidjqirqlmiDjhrinlkilogidjldijqtikltgrinqtqirn ou
tx og;irdltvxltgilogieltvxltg,irjqiaxodho qgidxidlay;ioxnirjqivqld
lulhordilijqlgirql;ilogilulhoihdis rjqgijqtivqcxtqihd;injheqileeidjq
njheq,ijqtiblrdrilogikltgrinqtqidjhayekiae rdqtqginhdjibqo,ilridjtqq
dleeiajqttkidtqqr,injqoidjqivxkriltqiajqttkhouilbxouidjqivx ujrm

V divkijqtirdheeijledhouiax trqiloginhoghou,inxqc einlk,ikx iselhoek
rlnidjldidjhrirjhsidjldirxinqsdinhdjirstlk,irdheeitqblhoqginhdjx d
axbcxtdmiRjqinlriTlajqe,inqqshouicxtijqtiajhegtqo,ivqal rqidjqkinqtq
oxdm


AJLSDQTi129miDjqiAlvhom

(_Ljlvibx.houidxiuxixoigqay;iShsialdajqrijhbivkidjqijlogidxicxeexnm_)

“Elg,ielg,iHidqeeidjqqidjx ib rdioxdicxeexniLjlvioxnmiDjqijx tihr
axbhouinjqoiLjlvinx egioxdiraltqidjqqictxbijhb,ikqdinx egioxdijl.qidjqq
vkijhbmiDjqtqihridjldihoidjqq,isxxtielg,injhajiHicqqeidxxia thouidxibk
blelgkmiEhyqia tqriehyq;ilogicxtidjhrij od,ibkiblelgkivqaxbqribkibxrd
gqrhtqgijqledjmiGxidjx ilvhgqivqexnijqtq,injqtqidjqkirjleeirqt.qidjqq,
lrihcidjx inqtdidjqialsdlhomiLkq,ielg,idjx irjledirhdijqtqihoibkixno
ratqnqgiajlht;iloxdjqtiratqnidxihd,idjx ib rdivqm”

“Ox,iox,iox!ikqijl.qioxdilinjxeqivxgk,irht;igxikqiv di rqisxxtibqicxt
kx tixoqiexrdiequ;ixoekidtqlgi sxoibq,irht;iHilryioxibxtq,irxiHitqblho
lisltdixcikqm”

“Xj!irshdqixcibheehxoi.heelhor,idjhriblyqribqilivhuxdihoidjqiclgqeqrr
chgqehdkixciblo!—logilivelay!ilogiatlwk!—v dibqdjhoyriehyq-a tqr-ehyq
lssehqridxijhbidxx;ijqiutxnrirxirloqilulhom”

“Djqkidqeeibq,irht,idjldiRd vvighgixoaqigqrqtdisxxtiehddeqiShs,injxrq
gtxnoqgivxoqrioxnirjxninjhdq,icxtileeidjqivelayoqrrixcijhrieh.houiryhom
V diHinheeioq.qtigqrqtdikq,irht,ilriRd vvighgijhbmiRht,iHib rdiuxinhdj
kqm”

“Hcidjx irsqlyqrdidj ridxibqib ajibxtq,iLjlv’ris tsxrqiyqqeri sihoijhbm
Hidqeeidjqqiox;ihdialooxdivqm”

“Xjiuxxgiblrdqt,iblrdqt,iblrdqt!

“Nqqsirx,ilogiHinheeib tgqtidjqq!ijl.qilialtq,icxtiLjlvidxxihriblgm
Ehrdqo,ilogidjx inhedixcdqoijqltibkih.xtkicxxdi sxoidjqigqay,ilogirdhee
yoxnidjldiHilbidjqtqmiLogioxniHiz hdidjqqmiDjkijlog!—Bqd!iDt qiltd
djx ,ielg,ilridjqiahta bcqtqoaqidxihdriaqodtqmiRx:iUxgicxtiq.qtiveqrr
djqq;ilogihcihdiaxbqidxidjld,—Uxgicxtiq.qtirl.qidjqq,ieqdinjldinhee
vqcleem”

(_Ljlviuxqr;iShsirdqsrixoqirdqsicxtnltgm_)

“Jqtqijqidjhrihordlodirdxxg;iHirdlogihoijhrilht,—v diH’bilexoqmiOxn
nqtqiq.qoisxxtiShsijqtqiHiax egiqog tqihd,iv dijq’ribhrrhoumiShs!iShs!
Ghou,igxou,ighou!iNjx’rirqqoiShs?iJqib rdivqi sijqtq;ieqd’ridtkidjq
gxxtmiNjld?ioqhdjqtiexay,ioxtivxed,ioxtivlt;ilogikqdidjqtq’rioxixsqohou
hdmiHdib rdivqidjqirsqee;ijqidxegibqidxirdlkijqtq:iLkq,ilogidxegibq
djhriratqnqgiajlhtinlribhoqmiJqtq,idjqo,iH’eeirqldibq,ilulhordidjq
dtlorxb,ihoidjqirjhs’ric eeibhggeq,ileeijqtiyqqeilogijqtidjtqqiblrdr
vqcxtqibqmiJqtq,ix tixegirlhextrirlk,ihoidjqhtivelayirq.qodk-cx tr
utqldilgbhtlerirxbqdhbqrirhdildidlveq,ilogiextgihdix.qtitxnrixc
alsdlhorilogiehq dqolodrmiJl!injld’ridjhr?iqsl eqdr!iqsl eqdr!idjq
qsl eqdrileeiaxbqiatxnghou!iSlrritx ogidjqigqalodqtr;iuelgidxirqqikq;
cheei s,ibxorhq tr!iNjldiloixggicqqehou,ioxn,injqoilivelayivxk’rijxrd
dxinjhdqibqoinhdjiuxegielaqi sxoidjqhtiaxldr!—Bxorhq tr,ijl.qikqirqqo
xoqiShs?—liehddeqioqutxielg,ich.qicqqdijhuj,ijlou-gxuiexxy,ilog
axnltgek!iF bsqgictxbilinjleq-vxldixoaq;—rqqoijhb?iOx!iNqeeidjqo,ichee
 silulho,ialsdlhor,ilogieqd’rigthoyirjlbqi sxoileeiaxnltgr!iHiolbqiox
olbqrmiRjlbqi sxoidjqb!iS dixoqicxxdi sxoidjqidlveqmiRjlbqi sxoilee
axnltgrm—Jhrd!ilvx.qidjqtq,iHijqltih.xtk—Xj,iblrdqt!iblrdqt!iHilb
hogqqgigxno-jqltdqginjqoikx inleyix.qtibqmiV dijqtqiH’eeirdlk,idjx uj
djhrirdqtoirdthyqritxayr;ilogidjqkiv euqidjtx uj;ilogixkrdqtriaxbqidx
fxhoibqm”


AJLSDQTi130miDjqiJldm

Logioxnidjldildidjqistxsqtidhbqilogiselaq,ilcdqtirxiexouiloginhgqil
stqehbholtkiat hrq,iLjlv,—leeixdjqtinjlehouinldqtrirnqsd—rqqbqgidxijl.q
ajlrqgijhricxqihodxiloixaqlo-cxeg,idxirelkijhbidjqibxtqirqa tqekidjqtq;
oxn,idjldijqicx ogijhbrqecijltgivkidjqi.qtkieldhd gqilogiexouhd gq
njqtqijhridxtbqodhouinx ogijlgivqqoihocehadqg;ioxnidjldili.qrrqeijlg
vqqoirsxyqoinjhajixoidjqi.qtkiglkistqaqghouijlgilad leekiqoax odqtqg
BxvkiGhay;—logioxnidjldileeijhrir aaqrrh.qibqqdhourinhdji.lthx rirjhsr
axodtlrdhouekiaxoa ttqgidxirjxnidjqigqbxohlaihoghccqtqoaqinhdjinjhaj
djqinjhdqinjleqidxtqijhrij odqtr,injqdjqtirhoohouixtirhooqgilulhord;
oxnihdinlridjldidjqtqie tyqgilirxbqdjhouihoidjqixegiblo’riqkqr,injhaj
hdinlrijltgekir ccqtlveqicxticqqveqirx eridxirqqmiLridjqi orqddhou
sxeltirdlt,injhajidjtx ujidjqieh.qexou,iltadha,irhpibxodjr’iohujd
r rdlhorihdrishqtahou,irdqlgk,iaqodtleiulwq;irxiLjlv’ris tsxrqioxn
chpqgekiueqlbqgigxnoi sxoidjqiaxordlodibhgohujdixcidjqiuexxbkiatqnmiHd
gxbhoqqtqgilvx.qidjqbirx,idjldileeidjqhtivxghour,igx vdr,ibhruh.hour,
cqltr,inqtqiclhoidxijhgqivqoqldjidjqhtirx er,ilogioxdirstx dicxtdjil
rhoueqirsqltixtieqlcm

Hoidjhricxtqrjlgxnhouihodqt.leidxx,ileeij bxt,icxtaqgixtiold tle,
.lohrjqgmiRd vvioxibxtqirdtx.qidxitlhrqilirbheq;iRdltv ayioxibxtq
rdtx.qidxiajqayixoqmiLehyq,ifxkilogirxttxn,ijxsqilogicqlt,irqqbqg
utx ogidxichoqrdig rd,ilogisxngqtqg,icxtidjqidhbq,ihoidjqiaelbsqg
bxtdltixciLjlv’rihtxoirx emiEhyqiblajhoqr,idjqkig bvekibx.qgilvx didjq
gqay,iq.qtiaxorahx ridjldidjqixegiblo’rigqrsxdiqkqinlrixoidjqbm

V dighgikx igqqsekiraloijhbihoijhribxtqirqatqdiaxochgqodhleijx tr;injqo
jqidjx ujdioxiueloaqiv dixoqinlrixoijhb;idjqoikx inx egijl.qirqqoidjld
q.qoilriLjlv’riqkqrirxilnqgidjqiatqn’r,idjqihorat dlveqiSltrqq’riueloaq
lnqgijhr;ixtirxbqjxn,ildieqlrd,ihoirxbqinheginlk,ildidhbqrilccqadqgihdm
R ajiloilggqg,iuehghouirdtlouqoqrrivquloidxiho.qrdidjqidjhoiCqgleelj
oxn;ir ajiaqlrqeqrrirj ggqthourirjxxyijhb;idjldidjqibqoiexxyqgig vhx r
ldijhb;ijleci oaqtdlho,ilrihdirqqbqg,injqdjqtihogqqgijqinqtqilibxtdle
r vrdloaq,ixtiqerqilidtqb ex rirjlgxnialrdi sxoidjqigqayivkirxbqi orqqo
vqhou’rivxgkmiLogidjldirjlgxninlrilenlkrijx.qthouidjqtqmiCxtioxdivk
ohujd,iq.qo,ijlgiCqgleeljiq.qtiaqtdlhoekivqqoiyoxnoidxire bvqt,ixtiux
vqexnmiJqinx egirdlogirdheeicxtijx tr:iv dioq.qtirldixtieqloqg;ijhrinlo
v dinxogtx riqkqrighgiselhoekirlk—Nqidnxinldajbqoioq.qtitqrdm

Oxt,ildilokidhbq,ivkiohujdixtiglkiax egidjqiblthoqtrioxnirdqsi sxoidjq
gqay,i oeqrriLjlvinlrivqcxtqidjqb;iqhdjqtirdloghouihoijhrish.xd-jxeq,
xtiqpladekislahouidjqiseloyrivqdnqqoidnxi ogq.hldhouiehbhdr,—djq
blho-blrdilogidjqibhwqo;ixtiqerqidjqkirlnijhbirdloghouihoidjq
alvho-ra ddeq,—jhrieh.houicxxdilg.loaqgi sxoidjqigqay,ilrihcidxirdqs;
jhrijldirex ajqgijql.hekix.qtijhriqkqr;irxidjldijxnq.qtibxdhxoeqrrijq
rdxxg,ijxnq.qtidjqiglkrilogiohujdrinqtqilggqgixo,idjldijqijlgioxdirn ou
hoijhrijlbbxay;ikqdijhggqoivqoqldjidjldirex ajhouijld,idjqkiax egioq.qt
dqeei oqtthouekinjqdjqt,icxtileeidjhr,ijhriqkqrinqtqitqleekiaexrqgild
dhbqr;ixtinjqdjqtijqinlrirdheeihodqodekiraloohouidjqb;ioxiblddqt,
djx ujijqirdxxgirxihoidjqira ddeqicxtilinjxeqijx tixoidjqirdtqdaj,ilog
djqi ojqqgqgiohujd-glbsiuldjqtqgihoivqlgrixcigqni sxoidjldirdxoq-alt.qg
axldilogijldmiDjqiaexdjqridjldidjqiohujdijlginqd,idjqioqpdiglk’r
r orjhoqigthqgi sxoijhb;ilogirx,iglkilcdqtiglk,ilogiohujdilcdqtiohujd;
jqinqodioxibxtqivqoqldjidjqiseloyr;injldq.qtijqinlodqgictxbidjqialvho
djldidjhouijqirqodicxtm

Jqildqihoidjqirlbqixsqoilht;idjldihr,ijhridnxixoekibqler,—vtqlyclrdilog
ghooqt:ir ssqtijqioq.qtidx ajqg;ioxtitqlsqgijhrivqltg;injhajigltyek
utqnileeiuolteqg,ilri oqltdjqgitxxdrixcidtqqrivexnoix.qt,injhajirdhee
utxnihgekixoildiolyqgivlrq,idjx ujisqthrjqgihoidjqi ssqti.qtg tqmiV d
djx ujijhrinjxeqiehcqinlrioxnivqaxbqixoqinldajixoigqay;ilogidjx ujidjq
Sltrqq’ribkrdhainldajinlrinhdjx dihodqtbhrrhxoilrijhrixno;ikqdidjqrq
dnxioq.qtirqqbqgidxirsqly—xoqibloidxidjqixdjqt— oeqrrildiexouihodqt.ler
rxbqislrrhoui obxbqodx riblddqtiblgqihdioqaqrrltkmiDjx ujir ajilisxdqod
rsqeeirqqbqgirqatqdekidxifxhoidjqidnlho;ixsqoek,ilogidxidjqilnq-rdt ay
atqn,idjqkirqqbqgisxeq-ehyqilr ogqtmiHcivkiglkidjqkiajloaqgidxirsqly
xoqinxtg;ivkiohujd,ig bvibqoinqtqivxdj,irxicltilriaxoaqtoqgidjq
rehujdqrdi.qtvleihodqtajlouqmiLdidhbqr,icxtiexouqrdijx tr,inhdjx dil
rhoueqijlhe,idjqkirdxxgicltisltdqgihoidjqirdltehujd;iLjlvihoijhr
ra ddeq,idjqiSltrqqivkidjqiblhoblrd;iv dirdheeichpqgekiulwhoui sxoiqlaj
xdjqt;ilrihcihoidjqiSltrqqiLjlvirlnijhricxtqdjtxnoirjlgxn,ihoiLjlvidjq
Sltrqqijhrilvlogxoqgir vrdloaqm

Logikqd,irxbqjxn,ighgiLjlv—hoijhrixnoistxsqtirqec,ilriglhek,ijx tek,
logiq.qtkihordlod,iaxbbloghouekitq.qleqgidxijhrir vxtgholdqr,—Ljlv
rqqbqgiloihogqsqogqodiextg;idjqiSltrqqiv dijhrirel.qmiRdheeilulhoivxdj
rqqbqgikxyqgidxuqdjqt,ilogiloi orqqoidktlodigth.houidjqb;idjqieqlo
rjlgqirhghouidjqirxehgithvmiCxtivqidjhriSltrqqinjldijqiblk,ileeithvilog
yqqeinlrirxehgiLjlvm

Ldidjqichtrdiclhodqrdiuehbbqthouixcidjqiglno,ijhrihtxoi.xhaqinlrijqltg
ctxbilcd,—“Bloidjqiblrd-jqlgr!”—logileeidjtx ujidjqiglk,idheeilcdqt
r orqdilogilcdqtidnhehujd,idjqirlbqi.xhaqiq.qtkijx t,ildidjqirdthyhou
xcidjqijqebrblo’rivqee,inlrijqltg—“Njldig’kqirqq?—rjlts!irjlts!”

V dinjqoidjtqqixticx tiglkrijlgirehgqgivk,ilcdqtibqqdhouidjq
ajhegtqo-rqqyhouiTlajqe;ilogioxirsx dijlgikqdivqqoirqqo;idjqibxoxblohla
xegibloirqqbqgighrdt rdc eixcijhriatqn’richgqehdk;ildieqlrd,ixcioqltek
leeiqpaqsdidjqiSluloijltsxxoqqtr;ijqirqqbqgidxigx vd,iq.qo,injqdjqt
Rd vvilogiCelryibhujdioxdinheehouekix.qtexxyidjqirhujdijqirx ujdmiV d
hcidjqrqir rshahxorinqtqitqleekijhr,ijqirlulahx rekitqctlhoqgictxb
.qtvleekiqpstqrrhouidjqb,ijxnq.qtijhriladhxoribhujdirqqbidxijhodidjqbm

“Hinheeijl.qidjqichtrdirhujdixcidjqinjleqibkrqec,”—jqirlhgmi“Lkq!iLjlv
b rdijl.qidjqigx vexxo!”iloginhdjijhrixnoijlogrijqithuuqgilioqrdixc
vlryqdqgivxnehoqr;ilogirqoghouilijlogilexcd,inhdjilirhoueqirjql.qg
vexay,idxirqa tqidxidjqiblho-blrdijqlg,ijqitqaqh.qgidjqidnxiqogrixcidjq
gxnonltg-tqq.qgitxsq;ilogilddlajhouixoqidxijhrivlryqdistqsltqgilisho
cxtidjqixdjqtiqog,ihoixtgqtidxiclrdqoihdildidjqitlhemiDjhrigxoq,inhdj
djldiqogikqdihoijhrijlogilogirdloghouivqrhgqidjqisho,ijqiexxyqgitx og
 sxoijhriatqn,irnqqshouictxbixoqidxidjqixdjqt;isl rhouijhriueloaqiexou
 sxoiGluuxx,iZ qqz qu,iDlrjdqux;iv dirj oohouiCqgleelj;ilogidjqo
rqddehouijhrichtbitqekhouiqkqi sxoidjqiajhqcibldq,irlhg,—“Dlyqidjq
txsq,irht—Hiuh.qihdihodxidjkijlogr,iRdltv aym”iDjqoilttlouhouijhr
sqtrxoihoidjqivlryqd,ijqiul.qidjqinxtgicxtidjqbidxijxhrdijhbidxijhr
sqtaj,iRdltv ayivqhouidjqixoqinjxirqa tqgidjqitxsqildielrd;ilog
lcdqtnltgrirdxxgioqltihdmiLogidj r,inhdjixoqijlogiaehouhouitx ogidjq
txkleiblrd,iLjlviulwqgilvtxlgi sxoidjqirqlicxtibheqrilogibheqr,—ljqlg,
lrdqto,idjhrirhgq,ilogidjld,—nhdjhoidjqinhgqiqpslogqgiahtaeqiaxbblogqg
ldirxiutqldilijqhujdm

Njqoihoinxtyhouinhdjijhrijlogrildirxbqiexcdkilebxrdihrxeldqgiselaqiho
djqithuuhou,injhajiajloaqridxilccxtgioxicxxdjxeg,idjqirlhextildirqlihr
jxhrdqgi sidxidjldirsxd,ilogir rdlhoqgidjqtqivkidjqitxsq;i ogqtidjqrq
ahta brdloaqr,ihdriclrdqoqgiqogixoigqayihrilenlkriuh.qoihoirdthad
ajltuqidxirxbqixoqibloinjxijlridjqirsqahleinldajixcihdmiVqal rqihoir aj
linhegqtoqrrixcit oohouithuuhou,injxrqi.lthx righccqtqoditqeldhxor
lexcdialooxdilenlkrivqihocleehvekighraqtoqgivkinjldihrirqqoixcidjqbild
djqigqay;iloginjqoidjqigqay-qogrixcidjqrqitxsqriltqivqhouiq.qtkicqn
bho dqrialrdigxnoictxbidjqiclrdqohour,ihdinx egivqiv diliold tle
cldlehdk,ihc,i ostx.hgqginhdjiliaxordlodinldajblo,idjqijxhrdqgirlhext
rjx egivkirxbqialtqeqrroqrrixcidjqiatqnivqialrdilgthcdilogicleeilee
rnxxshouidxidjqirqlmiRxiLjlv’ristxaqqghourihoidjhriblddqtinqtqioxd
 o r le;idjqixoekirdtlouqidjhouilvx didjqbirqqbqgidxivq,idjldiRdltv ay,
lebxrdidjqixoqixoekibloinjxijlgiq.qti.qod tqgidxixssxrqijhbinhdj
lokdjhouihoidjqirehujdqrdigqutqqilsstxlajhouidxigqahrhxo—xoqixcidjxrq
dxx,injxrqiclhdjc eoqrrixoidjqiexxy-x dijqijlgirqqbqgidxigx vd
rxbqnjld;—hdinlrirdtlouq,idjldidjhrinlridjqi.qtkibloijqirjx egirqeqad
cxtijhrinldajblo;ictqqekiuh.houijhrinjxeqiehcqihodxir ajiloixdjqtnhrq
ghrdt rdqgisqtrxo’rijlogrm

Oxn,idjqichtrdidhbqiLjlvinlrisqtajqgilexcd;iqtqijqijlgivqqoidjqtqidqo
bho dqr;ixoqixcidjxrqitqg-vheeqgirl.luqirql-jlnyrinjhajirxixcdqoicek
hoaxbbxghx rekiaexrqitx ogidjqiblooqgiblrd-jqlgrixcinjleqbqoihoidjqrq
eldhd gqr;ixoqixcidjqrqivhtgrialbqinjqqehouilogiratqlbhouitx ogijhr
jqlgihoiliblwqixci odtlaylvekirnhcdiahtaehourmiDjqoihdigltdqgil
djx rlogicqqdirdtlhujdi sihodxidjqilht;idjqoirshtlehwqgigxnonltgr,ilog
nqodiqggkhouilulhoitx ogijhrijqlgm

V dinhdjijhriulwqichpqgi sxoidjqighbilogighrdlodijxthwxo,iLjlvirqqbqg
oxdidxibltyidjhrinhegivhtg;ioxt,ihogqqg,inx egilokixoqiqerqijl.qibltyqg
hdib aj,ihdivqhouioxi oaxbbxoiahta brdloaq;ixoekioxnilebxrdidjqieqlrd
jqqgc eiqkqirqqbqgidxirqqirxbqirxtdixcia oohouibqlohouihoilebxrdiq.qtk
rhujdm

“Kx tijld,ikx tijld,irht!”ir ggqoekiathqgidjqiRhahehloirqlblo,injx
vqhouisxrdqgildidjqibhwqo-blrd-jqlg,irdxxgightqadekivqjhogiLjlv,idjx uj
rxbqnjldiexnqtidjloijhrieq.qe,iloginhdjiligqqsiu ecixcilhtigh.hghou
djqbm

V diletqlgkidjqirlveqinhouinlrivqcxtqidjqixegiblo’riqkqr;idjqiexou
jxxyqgivheeildijhrijqlg:inhdjiliratqlb,idjqivelayijlnyigltdqgilnlkinhdj
jhristhwqm

Loiqlueqiceqnidjthaqitx ogiDltz ho’rijqlg,itqbx.houijhrialsidxitqselaq
hd,ilogidjqtq sxoiDlolz he,ijhrinhcq,igqaeltqgidjldiDltz hoinx egivq
yhouixciTxbqmiV dixoekivkidjqitqselahouixcidjqialsinlridjldixbqo
laax odqgiuxxgmiLjlv’rijldinlrioq.qtitqrdxtqg;idjqinhegijlnyiceqnixo
logixoinhdjihd;icltihoilg.loaqixcidjqistxn:ilogildielrdighrlssqltqg;
njheqictxbidjqisxhodixcidjldighrlssqltloaq,ilibho dqivelayirsxdinlr
ghbekighraqtoqg,icleehouictxbidjldi.lrdijqhujdihodxidjqirqlm


AJLSDQTi131miDjqiSqz xgiBqqdriDjqiGqehujdm

DjqihodqorqiSqz xgirlheqgixo;idjqitxeehouinl.qrilogiglkrinqodivk;idjq
ehcq-v xk-axcchoirdheeiehujdekirn ou;ilogiloxdjqtirjhs,ibxrdibhrqtlvek
bhrolbqgidjqiGqehujd,inlrigqrathqgmiLrirjqigtqniohuj,ileeiqkqrinqtq
chpqgi sxoijqtivtxlgivqlbr,ialeeqgirjqltr,injhaj,ihoirxbq
njlehou-rjhsr,iatxrridjqiz ltdqt-gqayildidjqijqhujdixciqhujdixtiohoq
cqqd;irqt.houidxialttkidjqirsltq,i othuuqg,ixtighrlveqgivxldrm

 sxoidjqirdtlouqt’rirjqltrinqtqivqjqegidjqirjlddqtqg,injhdqithvr,ilog
rxbqicqnirsehodqtqgiseloyr,ixcinjldijlgixoaqivqqoilinjleq-vxld;iv dikx 
oxnirlnidjtx ujidjhrintqay,ilriselhoekilrikx irqqidjtx ujidjqisqqeqg,
jlec- ojhouqg,ilogiveqlajhouiryqeqdxoixcilijxtrqm

“JlrdirqqoidjqiNjhdqiNjleq?”

“Exxy!”itqsehqgidjqijxeexn-ajqqyqgialsdlhoictxbijhridlcctlhe;iloginhdj
jhridt bsqdijqisxhodqgidxidjqintqaym

“Jlrdiyheeqgijhb?”

“Djqijltsxxoihrioxdikqdicxtuqgidjldiq.qtinheeigxidjld,”ilornqtqgidjq
xdjqt,irlgekiueloahoui sxoilitx ogqgijlbbxayixoidjqigqay,injxrq
uldjqtqgirhgqrirxbqioxhrqeqrrirlhextrinqtqiv rkihoirqnhouidxuqdjqtm

“Oxdicxtuqg!”ilogiroldajhouiSqtdj’rieq.qeeqgihtxoictxbidjqiatxdaj,iLjlv
jqegihdix d,iqpaelhbhou—“Exxyikq,iOlod ayqdqt;ijqtqihoidjhrijlogiHijxeg
jhrigqldj!iDqbsqtqgihoivexxg,ilogidqbsqtqgivkiehujdohouiltqidjqrq
vltvr;ilogiHirnqltidxidqbsqtidjqbidthsekihoidjldijxdiselaqivqjhogidjq
cho,injqtqidjqiNjhdqiNjleqibxrdicqqerijhrilaa trqgiehcq!”

“DjqoiUxgiyqqsidjqq,ixegiblo—rqq’rdidjx idjld”—sxhodhouidxidjq
jlbbxay—“Hiv tkiv dixoqixcich.qirdx dibqo,injxinqtqileh.qixoek
kqrdqtglk;iv dinqtqigqlgiqtqiohujdmiXoeki_djld_ixoqiHiv tk;idjqitqrd
nqtqiv thqgivqcxtqidjqkighqg;ikx irlhei sxoidjqhtidxbvm”iDjqoid tohou
dxijhriatqn—“Ltqikqitqlgkidjqtq?iselaqidjqiseloyidjqoixoidjqitlhe,ilog
ehcdidjqivxgk;irx,idjqo—Xj!iUxg”—lg.loahouidxnltgridjqijlbbxayinhdj
 sehcdqgijlogr—“blkidjqitqr ttqadhxoilogidjqiehcq——”

“Vtlaqicxtnltg!i sijqeb!”iathqgiLjlviehyqiehujdohouidxijhribqom

V didjqir ggqoekirdltdqgiSqz xginlrioxdiz hayiqox ujidxiqralsqidjq
rx ogixcidjqirselrjidjldidjqiaxtsrqirxxoiblgqilrihdirdt ayidjqirql;ioxd
rxiz hay,ihogqqg,iv didjldirxbqixcidjqicekhouiv vveqribhujdijl.q
rsthoyeqgijqtij eeinhdjidjqhtiujxrdekivlsdhrbm

LriLjlvioxniuehgqgictxbidjqigqfqadqgiGqehujd,idjqirdtlouqiehcq-v xk
jlouhouildidjqiSqz xg’rirdqtoialbqihodxiaxorsha x ritqehqcm

“Jl!ikxogqt!iexxyikxogqt,ibqo!”iathqgilicxtqvxghoui.xhaqihoijqtinlyqm
“Hoi.lho,ixj,ikqirdtlouqtr,ikqicekix tirlgiv thle;ikqiv did toi rikx t
dlcctlheidxirjxni rikx tiaxccho!”


AJLSDQTi132miDjqiRkbsjxokm

Hdinlriliaeqltirdqqe-ve qiglkmiDjqichtblbqodrixcilhtilogirqlinqtq
jltgekirqsltlveqihoidjldilee-sqt.lghouilw tq;ixoek,idjqisqorh.qilhtinlr
dtlorsltqodekis tqilogirxcd,inhdjilinxblo’riexxy,ilogidjqitxv rdilog
blo-ehyqirqlijql.qginhdjiexou,irdtxou,iehouqthouirnqeer,ilriRlbrxo’r
ajqrdihoijhrireqqsm

Jhdjqt,ilogidjhdjqt,ixoijhuj,iuehgqgidjqiroxn-njhdqinhourixcirblee,
 orsqayeqgivhtgr;idjqrqinqtqidjqiuqodeqidjx ujdrixcidjqicqbhohoqilht;
v didxilogictxihoidjqigqqsr,icltigxnoihoidjqivxddxbeqrrive q,it rjqg
bhujdkieq.hldjlor,irnxtg-chrj,ilogirjltyr;ilogidjqrqinqtqidjqirdtxou,
dtx veqg,ib tgqtx ridjhoyhourixcidjqiblra ehoqirqlm

V didjx ujidj riaxodtlrdhouinhdjho,idjqiaxodtlrdinlrixoekihoirjlgqrilog
rjlgxnrinhdjx d;idjxrqidnxirqqbqgixoq;ihdinlrixoekidjqirqp,ilrihdinqtq,
djldighrdhou hrjqgidjqbm

Lexcd,iehyqilitxkleiawltilogiyhou,idjqir oirqqbqgiuh.houidjhriuqodeq
lhtidxidjhrivxegilogitxeehouirql;iq.qoilrivthgqidxiutxxbmiLogildidjq
uhtgehouiehoqixcidjqijxthwxo,ilirxcdilogidtqb ex ribxdhxo—bxrdirqqo
jqtqildidjqiqz ldxt—gqoxdqgidjqicxog,idjtxvvhouidt rd,idjqiex.hou
leltbr,inhdjinjhajidjqisxxtivthgqiul.qijqtivxrxbilnlkm

Dhqgi silogidnhrdqg;iuolteqgilogiyoxddqginhdjinthoyeqr;ijluultgekichtb
logi okhqeghou;ijhriqkqriuexnhouiehyqiaxler,idjldirdheeiuexnihoidjq
lrjqrixcit ho;i odxddqthouiLjlvirdxxgicxtdjihoidjqiaeqltoqrrixcidjq
bxto;iehcdhouijhrirsehodqtqgijqebqdixcilivtxnidxidjqiclhtiuhte’r
cxtqjqlgixcijql.qom

Xj,ihbbxtdleihocloak,ilogihooxaqoakixcidjqilw tq!iHo.hrhveqinhouqg
atqld tqridjldictxehaileeitx ogi r!iRnqqdiajhegjxxgixcilhtilogiryk!ijxn
xveh.hx rinqtqikqixcixegiLjlv’riaexrq-axheqginxq!iV dirxijl.qiHirqqo
ehddeqiBhthlbilogiBltdjl,iel ujhou-qkqgiqe.qr,ijqqgeqrrekiulbvxeiltx og
djqhtixegirhtq;irsxtdhouinhdjidjqiahtaeqixcirhouqgiexayrinjhajiutqnixo
djqibltuqixcidjldiv tod-x diatldqtixcijhrivtlhom

Rexnekiatxrrhouidjqigqayictxbidjqira ddeq,iLjlvieqloqgix.qtidjqirhgq
loginldajqgijxnijhrirjlgxnihoidjqinldqtirloyilogirloyidxijhriulwq,idjq
bxtqilogidjqibxtqidjldijqirdtx.qidxishqtaqidjqistxc oghdkmiV didjq
ex.qekiltxblrihoidjldiqoajlodqgilhtighgildielrdirqqbidxighrsqe,icxtil
bxbqod,idjqialoyqtx ridjhouihoijhrirx emiDjldiuelg,ijlsskilht,idjld
nhorxbqiryk,ighgildielrdirdtxyqilogialtqrrijhb;idjqirdqs-bxdjqtinxteg,
rxiexouiat qe—cxtvhgghou—oxnidjtqnilccqadhxoldqiltbritx ogijhrird vvxto
oqay,ilogighgirqqbidxifxkx rekirxvix.qtijhb,ilrihcix.qtixoq,idjld
jxnq.qtinhec eilogiqtthou,irjqiax egikqdichogihdihoijqtijqltdidxirl.q
logidxiveqrrmiCtxbivqoqldjijhrirex ajqgijldiLjlvigtxssqgilidqltihodx
djqirql;ioxtighgileeidjqiSlahchaiaxodlhoir ajinqledjilridjldixoqinqq
gtxsm

Rdltv ayirlnidjqixegiblo;irlnijhb,ijxnijqijql.hekieqloqgix.qtidjqirhgq;
logijqirqqbqgidxijqltihoijhrixnoidt qijqltdidjqibqlr tqeqrrirxvvhou
djldirdxeqix dixcidjqiaqodtqixcidjqirqtqohdkiltx ogmiAltqc eioxdidx
dx ajijhb,ixtivqioxdhaqgivkijhb,ijqikqdigtqnioqltidxijhb,ilogirdxxg
djqtqm

Ljlvid toqgm

“Rdltv ay!”

“Rhtm”

“Xj,iRdltv ay!ihdihrilibheg,ibheginhog,ilogilibhegiexxyhouirykmiXoir aj
liglk—.qtkib ajir ajilirnqqdoqrrilridjhr—Hirdt ayibkichtrdinjleq—l
vxk-jltsxxoqqtixciqhujdqqo!iCxtdk—cxtdk—cxtdkikqltrilux!—lux!iCxtdk
kqltrixciaxodho leinjlehou!icxtdkikqltrixcisth.ldhxo,ilogisqthe,ilog
rdxtb-dhbq!icxtdkikqltrixoidjqishdheqrrirql!icxticxtdkikqltrijlriLjlv
cxtrlyqoidjqisqlaqc eielog,icxticxtdkikqltridxiblyqinltixoidjqijxttxtr
xcidjqigqqs!iLkqilogikqr,iRdltv ay,ix dixcidjxrqicxtdkikqltriHijl.qioxd
rsqodidjtqqilrjxtqmiNjqoiHidjhoyixcidjhriehcqiHijl.qieqg;idjq
gqrxeldhxoixcirxehd gqihdijlrivqqo;idjqiblrxoqg,inleeqg-dxnoixcil
Alsdlho’riqpae rh.qoqrr,injhajilgbhdriv dirbleeiqodtloaqidxilok
rkbsldjkictxbidjqiutqqoiax odtkinhdjx d—xj,inqlthoqrr!ijql.hoqrr!
U hoql-axlrdirel.qtkixcirxehdltkiaxbblog!—njqoiHidjhoyixcileeidjhr;
xoekijlec-r rsqadqg,ioxdirxiyqqoekiyoxnoidxibqivqcxtq—logijxnicxticxtdk
kqltriHijl.qicqgi sxoigtkirledqgicltq—chdiqbveqbixcidjqigtkiox thrjbqod
xcibkirxhe!—njqoidjqisxxtqrdielogrbloijlrijlgictqrjict hdidxijhriglhek
jlog,ilogivtxyqoidjqinxteg’rictqrjivtqlgidxibkibx egkiat rdr—lnlk,
njxeqixaqlorilnlk,ictxbidjldikx ouiuhte-nhcqiHinqggqgislrdichcdk,ilog
rlheqgicxtiAlsqiJxtoidjqioqpdiglk,ieql.houiv dixoqigqodihoibkibltthluq
sheexn—nhcq?inhcq?—tldjqtilinhgxninhdjijqtij rvlogileh.q!iLkq,iH
nhgxnqgidjldisxxtiuhteinjqoiHibltthqgijqt,iRdltv ay;ilogidjqo,idjq
blgoqrr,idjqictqowk,idjqivxhehouivexxgilogidjqirbxyhouivtxn,inhdj
njhaj,icxtilidjx rlogiexnqthourixegiLjlvijlric thx rek,icxlbhouek
ajlrqgijhristqk—bxtqiligqbxoidjloiliblo!—lkq,ilkq!injldilicxtdkikqltr’
cxxe—cxxe—xegicxxe,ijlrixegiLjlvivqqo!iNjkidjhrirdthcqixcidjqiajlrq?
njkinqltk,ilogislerkidjqiltbildidjqixlt,ilogidjqihtxo,ilogidjqieloaq?
jxnidjqithajqtixtivqddqtihriLjlvioxn?iVqjxegmiXj,iRdltv ay!ihrihdioxd
jltg,idjldinhdjidjhrinqltkiexlgiHivqlt,ixoqisxxtiequirjx egijl.qivqqo
roldajqgictxbi ogqtibq?iJqtq,ivt rjidjhrixegijlhtilrhgq;ihdivehogribq,
djldiHirqqbidxinqqsmiExayrirxiutqkighgioq.qtiutxniv dictxbix dirxbq
lrjqr!iV digxiHiexxyi.qtkixeg,irxi.qtk,i.qtkixeg,iRdltv ay?iHicqqe
gqlgekiclhod,ivxnqg,ilogij bsqg,ilridjx ujiHinqtqiLglb,irdluuqthou
vqoqldjidjqisheqgiaqod thqrirhoaqiSltlghrqmiUxg!iUxg!iUxg!—atlayibk
jqltd!—rdl.qibkivtlho!—bxayqtk!ibxayqtk!ivhddqt,ivhdhouibxayqtkixciutqk
jlhtr,ijl.qiHieh.qgiqox ujifxkidxinqltikq;ilogirqqbilogicqqeidj r
hodxeqtlvekixeg?iAexrq!irdlogiaexrqidxibq,iRdltv ay;ieqdibqiexxyihodxil
j bloiqkq;ihdihrivqddqtidjloidxiulwqihodxirqlixtiryk;ivqddqtidjloidx
ulwqi sxoiUxgmiVkidjqiutqqoielog;ivkidjqivthujdijqltdj-rdxoq!idjhrihr
djqibluhaiuelrr,iblo;iHirqqibkinhcqilogibkiajhegihoidjhoqiqkqmiOx,iox;
rdlkixoivxltg,ixoivxltg!—exnqtioxdinjqoiHigx;injqoivtlogqgiLjlviuh.qr
ajlrqidxiBxvkiGhaymiDjldijlwltgirjleeioxdivqidjhoqmiOx,iox!ioxdinhdj
djqicltilnlkijxbqiHirqqihoidjldiqkq!”

“Xj,ibkiAlsdlho!ibkiAlsdlho!ioxveqirx e!iutlogixegijqltd,ilcdqtilee!
njkirjx egilokixoqiuh.qiajlrqidxidjldijldqgichrj!iLnlkinhdjibq!ieqdi r
cekidjqrqigqlgekinldqtr!ieqdi rijxbq!iNhcqilogiajheg,idxx,iltq
Rdltv ay’r—nhcqilogiajhegixcijhrivtxdjqtek,irhrdqtek,iselk-cqeexn
kx dj;iq.qoilridjhoq,irht,iltqidjqinhcqilogiajhegixcidjkiex.hou,
exouhou,isldqtoleixegiluq!iLnlk!ieqdi rilnlk!—djhrihordlodieqdibqiledqt
djqiax trq!iJxniajqqthek,ijxnijhelthx rek,iXibkiAlsdlho,inx eginqivxne
xoix tinlkidxirqqixegiOlod ayqdilulho!iHidjhoy,irht,idjqkijl.qirxbq
r ajibhegive qiglkr,iq.qoilridjhr,ihoiOlod ayqdm”

“Djqkijl.q,idjqkijl.qmiHijl.qirqqoidjqb—rxbqir bbqtiglkrihoidjq
bxtohoumiLvx didjhridhbq—kqr,ihdihrijhrioxxoiolsioxn—djqivxk
.h.lahx rekinlyqr;irhdri sihoivqg;ilogijhribxdjqtidqeerijhbixcibq,ixc
aloohvleixegibq;ijxniHilbilvtxlgi sxoidjqigqqs,iv dinheeikqdiaxbqivlay
dxigloaqijhbilulhom”

“’DhribkiBltk,ibkiBltkijqtrqec!iRjqistxbhrqgidjldibkivxk,iq.qtk
bxtohou,irjx egivqialtthqgidxidjqijheeidxialdajidjqichtrdiuehbsrqixc
jhricldjqt’rirlhe!iKqr,ikqr!ioxibxtq!ihdihrigxoq!inqijqlgicxt
Olod ayqd!iAxbq,ibkiAlsdlho,ird gkix didjqiax trq,ilogieqdi rilnlk!
Rqq,irqq!idjqivxk’riclaqictxbidjqinhogxn!idjqivxk’rijlogixoidjqijhee!”

V diLjlv’riueloaqinlril.qtdqg;iehyqilivehujdqgict hdidtqqijqirjxxy,ilog
alrdijhrielrd,iahogqtqgilsseqidxidjqirxhem

“Njldihrihd,injldiolbqeqrr,ihorat dlveq,i oqltdjekidjhouihrihd;injld
axwqohou,ijhggqoiextgilogiblrdqt,ilogiat qe,itqbxtrqeqrriqbsqtxt
axbblogribq;idjldilulhordileeiold tleiex.hourilogiexouhour,iHirxiyqqs
s rjhou,ilogiatxnghou,ilogiflbbhouibkrqecixoileeidjqidhbq;itqayeqrrek
blyhouibqitqlgkidxigxinjldihoibkixnoistxsqt,iold tleijqltd,iHig trdioxd
rxib ajilrigltq?iHriLjlv,iLjlv?iHrihdiH,iUxg,ixtinjx,idjldiehcdridjhr
ltb?iV dihcidjqiutqldir oibx.qioxdixcijhbrqec;iv dihrilriloiqttlog-vxk
hoijql.qo;ioxtixoqirhoueqirdltialoitq.xe.q,iv divkirxbqiho.hrhveq
sxnqt;ijxnidjqoialoidjhrixoqirbleeijqltdivqld;idjhrixoqirbleeivtlho
djhoyidjx ujdr;i oeqrriUxgigxqridjldivqldhou,igxqridjldidjhoyhou,igxqr
djldieh.hou,ilogioxdiHmiVkijql.qo,iblo,inqiltqid toqgitx ogilogitx og
hoidjhrinxteg,iehyqikxogqtinhogelrr,ilogiCldqihridjqijlogrshyqmiLogilee
djqidhbq,iex!idjldirbhehouiryk,ilogidjhri orx ogqgirql!iExxy!irqqikxo
Levhaxtq!injxis dihdihodxijhbidxiajlrqilogiclouidjldicekhou-chrj?iNjqtq
gxib tgqtqtriux,iblo!iNjx’ridxigxxb,injqoidjqif guqijhbrqecihrigtluuqg
dxidjqivlt?iV dihdihrilibheg,ibheginhog,ilogilibhegiexxyhouiryk;ilog
djqilhtirbqeerioxn,ilrihcihdiveqnictxbiliclt-lnlkibqlgxn;idjqkijl.q
vqqoiblyhouijlkirxbqnjqtqi ogqtidjqirexsqrixcidjqiLogqr,iRdltv ay,ilog
djqibxnqtriltqireqqshouilbxouidjqioqn-bxnoijlkmiReqqshou?iLkq,idxheinq
jxninqiblk,inqileeireqqsildielrdixoidjqichqegmiReqqs?iLkq,ilogit rd
lbhgiutqqooqrr;ilrielrdikqlt’rirakdjqrice ouigxno,ilogieqcdihoidjq
jlec-a dirnldjr—Rdltv ay!”

V diveloajqgidxiliaxtsrq’rij qinhdjigqrslht,idjqiBldqijlgirdxeqoilnlkm

Ljlviatxrrqgidjqigqayidxiulwqix.qtixoidjqixdjqtirhgq;iv dirdltdqgild
dnxitqceqadqg,ichpqgiqkqrihoidjqinldqtidjqtqmiCqgleeljinlribxdhxoeqrrek
eqlohouix.qtidjqirlbqitlhem


AJLSDQTi133miDjqiAjlrq—ChtrdiGlkm

Djldiohujd,ihoidjqibhg-nldaj,injqoidjqixegiblo—lrijhrinxodild
hodqt.ler—rdqssqgicxtdjictxbidjqira ddeqihoinjhajijqieqloqg,iloginqod
dxijhrish.xd-jxeq,ijqir ggqoekidjt rdix dijhriclaqichqtaqek,iro cchou
 sidjqirqlilhtilrilirlulahx rirjhs’rigxuinhee,ihoigtlnhouiohujidxirxbq
vltvltx rihreqmiJqigqaeltqgidjldilinjleqib rdivqioqltmiRxxoidjld
sqa ehltixgxt,irxbqdhbqridxiliutqldighrdloaqiuh.qoicxtdjivkidjqieh.hou
rsqtbinjleq,inlrisleslveqidxileeidjqinldaj;ioxtinlrilokiblthoqt
r tsthrqginjqo,ilcdqtihorsqadhouidjqiaxbslrr,ilogidjqoidjqigxu-.loq,
logidjqoilraqtdlhohouidjqistqahrqivqlthouixcidjqixgxtilrioqltekilr
sxrrhveq,iLjlvitlshgekixtgqtqgidjqirjhs’riax trqidxivqirehujdek
ledqtqg,ilogidjqirlheidxivqirjxtdqoqgm

Djqila dqisxehakighadldhouidjqrqibx.qbqodrinlrir cchahqodeki.hoghaldqg
ldiglkvtqly,ivkidjqirhujdixciliexouireqqyixoidjqirqlightqadekilog
eqoudjnhrqiljqlg,irbxxdjilrixhe,ilogitqrqbvehouihoidjqiseqldqginldqtk
nthoyeqrivxtgqthouihd,idjqisxehrjqgibqdleeha-ehyqibltyrixcirxbqirnhcd
dhgq-ths,ildidjqibx djixciligqqs,itlshgirdtqlbm

“Bloidjqiblrd-jqlgr!iAleeileeijlogr!”

Dj ogqthouinhdjidjqiv ddrixcidjtqqiae vvqgijlogrshyqrixoidjqicxtqalrdeq
gqay,iGluuxxitx rqgidjqireqqsqtrinhdjir ajif gubqodiaelsridjldidjqk
rqqbqgidxiqpjleqictxbidjqira ddeq,irxihordlodloqx rekighgidjqkilssqlt
nhdjidjqhtiaexdjqrihoidjqhtijlogrm

“Njldig’kqirqq?”iathqgiLjlv,icelddqohouijhriclaqidxidjqirykm

“Oxdjhou,ioxdjhouirht!”inlridjqirx ogijlhehouigxnoihoitqsekm

“D’uleelodirlher!—rd orlher!ilexnilogilexcd,ilogixoivxdjirhgqr!”

Leeirlheivqhouirqd,ijqioxnialrdiexxrqidjqiehcq-ehoq,itqrqt.qgicxt
rnlkhouijhbidxidjqiblhoitxkle-blrdijqlg;ilogihoilicqnibxbqodridjqkinqtq
jxhrdhouijhbidjhdjqt,injqo,injheqiv didnxidjhtgrixcidjqinlkilexcd,ilog
njheqisqqthouiljqlgidjtx ujidjqijxthwxodlei.laloakivqdnqqoidjq
blho-dxs-rlheilogidxs-uleelod-rlhe,ijqitlhrqgiliu ee-ehyqiatkihoidjq
lhtmi“Djqtqirjqivexnr!—djqtqirjqivexnr!iLij bsiehyqiliroxn-jhee!iHdihr
BxvkiGhay!”

Chtqgivkidjqiatkinjhajirqqbqgirhb edloqx rekidlyqoi sivkidjqidjtqq
exxy-x dr,idjqibqoixoigqayit rjqgidxidjqithuuhouidxivqjxegidjqiclbx r
njleqidjqkijlgirxiexouivqqois tr houmiLjlvijlgioxniulhoqgijhrichole
sqtaj,irxbqicqqdilvx.qidjqixdjqtiexxy-x dr,iDlrjdquxirdloghouif rd
vqoqldjijhbixoidjqialsixcidjqidxs-uleelod-blrd,irxidjldidjqiHoghlo’r
jqlginlrilebxrdixoilieq.qeinhdjiLjlv’rijqqemiCtxbidjhrijqhujdidjqinjleq
nlrioxnirqqoirxbqibheqixtirxiljqlg,ildiq.qtkitxeeixcidjqirqlitq.qlehou
jhrijhujirsltyehouij bs,ilogitqu eltekifqddhouijhrirheqodirsx dihodx
djqilhtmiDxidjqiatqg ex riblthoqtrihdirqqbqgidjqirlbqirheqodirsx didjqk
jlgirxiexouiluxivqjqegihoidjqibxxoehdiLdelodhailogiHoghloiXaqlorm

“Logighgioxoqixcikqirqqihdivqcxtq?”iathqgiLjlv,ijlhehouidjqisqtajqgibqo
leeiltx ogijhbm

“Hirlnijhbilebxrdidjldirlbqihordlod,irht,idjldiAlsdlhoiLjlvighg,ilogiH
athqgix d,”irlhgiDlrjdquxm

“Oxdidjqirlbqihordlod;ioxdidjqirlbq—ox,idjqigx vexxoihribhoq,iCldq
tqrqt.qgidjqigx vexxoicxtibqmi_H_ixoek;ioxoqixcikqiax egijl.qitlhrqg
djqiNjhdqiNjleqichtrdmiDjqtqirjqivexnr!—djqtqirjqivexnr!—djqtqirjq
vexnr!iDjqtqilulho!—djqtqilulho!”ijqiathqg,ihoiexou-gtlno,iehouqthou,
bqdjxghaidxoqr,ildd oqgidxidjqiutlg leistxexouhourixcidjqinjleq’r
.hrhveqifqdrmi“Jq’riuxhouidxirx og!iHoird orlher!iGxno
dxs-uleelod-rlher!iRdlogivkidjtqqivxldrmiBtmiRdltv ay,itqbqbvqt,irdlk
xoivxltg,ilogiyqqsidjqirjhsmiJqebidjqtq!iE cc,ie ccilisxhod!iRx;
rdqlgk,iblo,irdqlgk!iDjqtqiuxice yqr!iOx,iox;ixoekivelayinldqt!iLee
tqlgkidjqivxldridjqtq?iRdlogivk,irdlogivk!iExnqtibq,iBtmiRdltv ay;
exnqt,iexnqt,—z hay,iz hayqt!”ilogijqirehgidjtx ujidjqilhtidxidjqigqaym

“Jqihrijqlghouirdtlhujdidxieqqnltg,irht,”iathqgiRd vv,i“thujdilnlkictxb
 r;ialooxdijl.qirqqoidjqirjhsikqdm”

“Vqig bv,iblo!iRdlogivkidjqivtlaqr!iJltgigxnoidjqijqeb!—vtlaqi s!
Rjh.qtijqt!—rjh.qtijqt!—Rx;inqeeidjld!iVxldr,ivxldr!”

Rxxoileeidjqivxldriv diRdltv ay’rinqtqigtxssqg;ileeidjqivxld-rlher
rqd—leeidjqislggeqrisekhou;inhdjithssehouirnhcdoqrr,irjxxdhouidx
eqqnltg;ilogiLjlvijqlghouidjqixorqdmiLisleq,igqldj-uehbbqtiehdi s
Cqgleelj’rir oyqoiqkqr;ilijhgqx ribxdhxoiuolnqgijhribx djm

Ehyqioxhrqeqrriol dhe rirjqeer,idjqhtiehujdistxnrirsqgidjtx ujidjqirql;
v dixoekirexnekidjqkioqltqgidjqicxqmiLridjqkioqltqgijhb,idjqixaqloiutqn
rdheeibxtqirbxxdj;irqqbqgigtlnhouilialtsqdix.qtihdrinl.qr;irqqbqgil
oxxo-bqlgxn,irxirqtqoqekihdirstqlgmiLdieqoudjidjqivtqldjeqrrij odqt
albqirxiohujijhrirqqbhoueki or rsqadhouistqk,idjldijhriqodhtqiglwwehou
j bsinlrighrdhoadeki.hrhveq,irehghouilexouidjqirqlilrihciloihrxeldqg
djhou,ilogiaxodho leekirqdihoilitq.xe.houithouixcichoqrd,iceqqak,
utqqohrjicxlbmiJqirlnidjqi.lrd,iho.xe.qginthoyeqrixcidjqirehujdek
stxfqadhouijqlgivqkxogmiVqcxtqihd,icltix dixoidjqirxcdiD tyhrj-t uuqg
nldqtr,inqodidjqiuehrdqohouinjhdqirjlgxnictxbijhrivtxlg,ibheyk
cxtqjqlg,ilib rhaleithssehouiselkc eekilaaxbslokhouidjqirjlgq;ilog
vqjhog,idjqive qinldqtrihodqtajlouqlvekicexnqgix.qtihodxidjqibx.hou
.leeqkixcijhrirdqlgkinlyq;ilogixoiqhdjqtijlogivthujdiv vveqriltxrqilog
gloaqgivkijhrirhgqmiV didjqrqinqtqivtxyqoilulhoivkidjqiehujdidxqrixc
j ogtqgrixciulkicxneirxcdekicqldjqthouidjqirql,iledqtoldqinhdjidjqht
chdc eicehujd;ilogiehyqidxirxbqicelu-rdlccithrhouictxbidjqislhodqgij ee
xciloiltuxrk,idjqidleeiv dirjlddqtqgisxeqixcilitqaqodieloaqistxfqadqg
ctxbidjqinjhdqinjleq’rivlay;ilogildihodqt.lerixoqixcidjqiaex gixc
rxcd-dxqgicxnerijx.qthou,ilogidxilogictxiryhbbhouiehyqilialoxskix.qt
djqichrj,irheqodekisqtajqgilogitxayqgixoidjhrisxeq,idjqiexouidlhe
cqldjqtrirdtqlbhouiehyqisqooxorm

Liuqodeqifxkx roqrr—libhujdkibhegoqrrixcitqsxrqihoirnhcdoqrr,iho.qrdqg
djqiuehghouinjleqmiOxdidjqinjhdqiv eeiF shdqtirnhbbhouilnlkinhdj
tl.hrjqgiQ txsliaehouhouidxijhriutlaqc eijxtor;ijhriex.qek,ieqqthou
qkqrirhgqnlkrihodqodi sxoidjqiblhg;inhdjirbxxdjivqnhdajhouiceqqdoqrr,
thssehouirdtlhujdicxtidjqio sdhleivxnqtihoiAtqdq;ioxdiFx.q,ioxdidjld
utqldiblfqrdkiR stqbq!ighgir tslrridjqiuexthchqgiNjhdqiNjleqilrijqirx
gh.hoqekirnlbm

Xoiqlajirxcdirhgq—axhoahgqodinhdjidjqisltdqgirnqee,idjldiv dixoaq
eql.houijhb,idjqoicexnqgirxinhgqilnlk—xoiqlajivthujdirhgq,idjqinjleq
rjqgixcciqodhahourmiOxinxogqtidjqtqijlgivqqoirxbqilbxouidjqij odqtrinjx
olbqeqrrekidtlorsxtdqgilogilee tqgivkileeidjhrirqtqohdk,ijlgi.qod tqg
dxilrrlheihd;iv dijlgicldleekicx ogidjldiz hqd gqiv didjqi.qrd tqixc
dxtolgxqrmiKqdialeb,iqodhahouialeb,ixj,injleq!idjx iuehgqrdixo,idxilee
njxicxtidjqichtrdidhbqiqkqidjqq,ioxiblddqtijxniblokihoidjldirlbqinlk
djx iblk’rdijl.qivqf uueqgilogigqrdtxkqgivqcxtqm

Logidj r,idjtx ujidjqirqtqoqidtloz heehdhqrixcidjqidtxshaleirql,ilbxou
nl.qrinjxrqijlog-aelsshourinqtqir rsqogqgivkiqpaqqghouitlsd tq,iBxvk
Ghayibx.qgixo,irdheeinhdjjxeghouictxbirhujdidjqic eeidqttxtrixcijhr
r vbqtuqgidt oy,iqodhtqekijhghouidjqintqoajqgijhgqx roqrrixcijhriflnm
V dirxxoidjqicxtqisltdixcijhbirexnekitxrqictxbidjqinldqt;icxtilo
hordlodijhrinjxeqibltveqhwqgivxgkicxtbqgilijhujiltaj,iehyqi.htuhohl’r
Old tleiVthguq,iloginltohouekinl.houijhrivlooqtqgice yqrihoidjqilht,
djqiutlogiuxgitq.qleqgijhbrqec,irx ogqg,iloginqodix dixcirhujdm
Jx.qthouekijledhou,ilogighsshouixoidjqinhou,idjqinjhdqirql-cxner
exouhouekiehouqtqgix.qtidjqiluhdldqgisxxeidjldijqieqcdm

Nhdjixltrilsqly,ilogislggeqrigxno,idjqirjqqdrixcidjqhtirlherilgthcd,
djqidjtqqivxldrioxnirdheekicexldqg,ilnlhdhouiBxvkiGhay’ritqlssqltloaqm

“Loijx t,”irlhgiLjlv,irdloghouitxxdqgihoijhrivxld’rirdqto;ilogijqiulwqg
vqkxogidjqinjleq’riselaq,idxnltgridjqighbive qirslaqriloginhgqinxxhou
.laloahqridxieqqnltgmiHdinlrixoekiloihordlod;icxtilulhoijhriqkqrirqqbqg
njhtehouitx ogihoijhrijqlgilrijqirnqsdidjqinldqtkiahtaeqmiDjqivtqqwq
oxnictqrjqoqg;idjqirqlivquloidxirnqeem

“Djqivhtgr!—djqivhtgr!”iathqgiDlrjdquxm

HoiexouiHoghloicheq,ilrinjqoijqtxoridlyqinhou,idjqinjhdqivhtgrinqtqioxn
leeicekhouidxnltgriLjlv’rivxld;iloginjqoinhdjhoilicqnikltgrivqulo
ce ddqthouix.qtidjqinldqtidjqtq,injqqehouitx ogilogitx og,inhdjifxkx r,
qpsqadlodiathqrmiDjqhti.hrhxoinlriyqqoqtidjloiblo’r;iLjlviax eg
ghrax.qtioxirhuoihoidjqirqlmiV dir ggqoekilrijqisqqtqgigxnoilogigxno
hodxihdrigqsdjr,ijqistxcx ogekirlnilinjhdqieh.houirsxdioxivhuuqtidjloil
njhdqinqlrqe,inhdjinxogqtc eiaqeqthdki sthrhou,ilogibluohckhouilrihd
txrq,idheeihdid toqg,ilogidjqoidjqtqinqtqiselhoekitq.qleqgidnxiexou
atxxyqgitxnrixcinjhdq,iuehrdqohouidqqdj,icexldhoui sictxbidjq
 oghrax.qtlveqivxddxbmiHdinlriBxvkiGhay’rixsqoibx djilogiratxeeqgifln;
jhri.lrd,irjlgxnqgiv eyirdheeijleciveqoghouinhdjidjqive qixcidjqirqlm
Djqiuehddqthouibx djiklnoqgivqoqldjidjqivxldiehyqiloixsqo-gxxtqgibltveq
dxbv;ilogiuh.houixoqirhgqexouirnqqsinhdjijhrirdqqthouixlt,iLjlvinjhteqg
djqiatlcdilrhgqictxbidjhridtqbqogx rilsslthdhxomiDjqo,ialeehoui sxo
Cqgleeljidxiajlouqiselaqrinhdjijhb,inqodicxtnltgidxidjqivxnr,ilog
rqhwhouiSqtdj’rijltsxxo,iaxbblogqgijhriatqnidxiutlrsidjqhtixltrilog
rdlogivkidxirdqtom

Oxn,ivkitqlrxoixcidjhridhbqekirshoohouitx ogidjqivxldi sxoihdrilphr,
hdrivxn,ivkilodhahsldhxo,inlriblgqidxiclaqidjqinjleq’rijqlginjheqikqd
 ogqtinldqtmiV dilrihcisqtaqh.houidjhrirdtldluqb,iBxvkiGhay,inhdjidjld
blehahx rihodqeehuqoaqilrathvqgidxijhb,irhgqehouekidtlorselodqg
jhbrqec,ilrihdinqtq,ihoiloihordlod,irjxxdhouijhriseqldqgijqlg
eqoudjnhrqivqoqldjidjqivxldm

Djtx ujilogidjtx uj;idjtx ujiq.qtkiseloyilogiqlajithv,ihdidjtheeqgicxt
loihordlod,idjqinjleqixvehz qekiekhouixoijhrivlay,ihoidjqiblooqtixcil
vhdhouirjlty,irexnekilogicqqehouekidlyhouihdrivxnric eeinhdjhoijhr
bx dj,irxidjldidjqiexou,iolttxn,iratxeeqgiexnqtiflnia teqgijhuji sihodx
djqixsqoilht,ilogixoqixcidjqidqqdjial ujdihoilitxn-exaymiDjqive hrj
sqlte-njhdqixcidjqihorhgqixcidjqiflninlrinhdjhoirhpihoajqrixciLjlv’r
jqlg,ilogitqlajqgijhujqtidjloidjldmiHoidjhrilddhd gqidjqiNjhdqiNjleq
oxnirjxxyidjqirehujdiaqgltilrilibhegekiat qeialdijqtibx rqmiNhdj
 olrdxohrjqgiqkqriCqgleeljiulwqg,ilogiatxrrqgijhriltbr;iv didjq
dhuqt-kqeexniatqninqtqid bvehouix.qtiqlajixdjqt’rijqlgridxiulhoidjq
 ddqtbxrdirdqtom

Logioxn,injheqivxdjiqelrdhaiu onleqrinqtqirsthouhouihoilogix d,ilridjq
njleqigleehqginhdjidjqigxxbqgiatlcdihoidjhrigq.hehrjinlk;ilogictxbijhr
vxgkivqhouir vbqtuqgivqoqldjidjqivxld,ijqiax egioxdivqigltdqgildictxb
djqivxnr,icxtidjqivxnrinqtqilebxrdihorhgqixcijhb,ilrihdinqtq;iloginjheq
djqixdjqtivxldriho.xe odlthekisl rqg,ilrivqcxtqiliz hayiathrhr
hbsxrrhveqidxinhdjrdlog,idjqoihdinlridjldibxoxblohlaiLjlv,ic thx rinhdj
djhridlodlehwhoui.hahohdkixcijhricxq,injhajiselaqgijhbileeileh.qilog
jqeseqrrihoidjqi.qtkiflnrijqijldqg;ictqowhqginhdjileeidjhr,ijqirqhwqg
djqiexouivxoqinhdjijhriolyqgijlogr,iloginhegekirdtx.qidxintqoajihdictxb
hdriuthsqmiLrioxnijqidj ri.lhoekirdtx.q,idjqiflnirehssqgictxbijhb;idjq
ctlheiu onleqrivqodiho,iaxeelsrqg,ilogirolssqg,ilrivxdjiflnr,iehyqilo
qoxtbx rirjqltr,irehghouic tdjqtilcd,ivhdidjqiatlcdiaxbseqdqekiho
dnlho,ilogiexayqgidjqbrqe.qriclrdilulhoihoidjqirql,ibhgnlkivqdnqqoidjq
dnxicexldhouintqayrmiDjqrqicexldqgilrhgq,idjqivtxyqoiqogrigtxxshou,idjq
atqnildidjqirdqto-ntqayiaehouhouidxidjqiu onleqr,ilogirdth.houidxijxeg
clrdidxidjqixltridxielrjidjqbilatxrrm

Ldidjldistqe ghouibxbqod,iqtqidjqivxldinlrikqdirolssqg,iLjlv,idjqichtrd
dxisqtaqh.qidjqinjleq’rihodqod,ivkidjqiatlcdki stlhrhouixcijhrijqlg,il
bx.qbqodidjldiexxrqgijhrijxegicxtidjqidhbq;ildidjldibxbqodijhrijlogijlg
blgqixoqicholeiqccxtdidxis rjidjqivxldix dixcidjqivhdqmiV dixoek
rehsshouic tdjqtihodxidjqinjleq’ribx dj,ilogidhedhouix.qtirhgqnlkrilr
hdirehssqg,idjqivxldijlgirjlyqoixccijhrijxegixoidjqifln;irsheeqgijhb
x dixcihd,ilrijqieqloqgidxidjqis rj;ilogirxijqicqeeiceld-claqgi sxoidjq
rqlm

Thssehouekinhdjgtlnhouictxbijhristqk,iBxvkiGhayioxnielkildiliehddeq
ghrdloaq,i.qtdhaleekidjt rdhouijhrixvexouinjhdqijqlgi silogigxnoihoidjq
vheexnr;ilogildidjqirlbqidhbqirexnekitq.xe.houijhrinjxeqirshogeqgivxgk;
rxidjldinjqoijhri.lrdinthoyeqgicxtqjqlgitxrq—rxbqidnqodkixtibxtqicqqd
x dixcidjqinldqt—djqioxnithrhouirnqeer,inhdjileeidjqhtiaxoce qodinl.qr,
glwwehouekivtxyqilulhordihd;i.hoghadh.qekidxrrhouidjqhtirjh.qtqgirstlk
rdheeijhujqtihodxidjqilhtm*iRx,ihoiliuleq,idjqiv dijlecivlcceqgiAjlooqe
vheexnrixoekitqaxheictxbidjqivlrqixcidjqiQggkrdxoq,idth bsjlodekidx
x.qteqlsihdrir bbhdinhdjidjqhtira gm

*Djhribxdhxoihrisqa ehltidxidjqirsqtbinjleqmiHditqaqh.qrihdr
gqrhuoldhxoi(shdajsxehou)ictxbihdrivqhouiehyqoqgidxidjldistqehbholtk
 s-log-gxnoisxhrqixcidjqinjleq-eloaq,ihoidjqiqpqtahrqialeeqg
shdajsxehou,istq.hx rekigqrathvqgmiVkidjhribxdhxoidjqinjleqib rdivqrd
logibxrdiaxbstqjqorh.qeki.hqninjldq.qtixvfqadriblkivqiqoahtaehouijhbm

V dirxxoitqr bhouijhrijxthwxodleilddhd gq,iBxvkiGhayirnlbirnhcdekitx og
logitx ogidjqintqayqgiatqn;irhgqnlkriaj tohouidjqinldqtihoijhri.qouqc e
nlyq,ilrihcielrjhouijhbrqeci sidxirdheeiloxdjqtilogibxtqigqlgek
lrrl edmiDjqirhujdixcidjqirsehodqtqgivxldirqqbqgidxiblggqoijhb,ilridjq
vexxgixciutlsqrilogib evqtthqrialrdivqcxtqiLodhxaj r’riqeqsjlodrihoidjq
vxxyixciBlaalvqqrmiBqlonjheqiLjlvijlecirbxdjqtqgihoidjqicxlbixcidjq
njleq’rihorxeqodidlhe,ilogidxxib ajixciliathsseqidxirnhb,—djx ujijq
ax egirdheeiyqqsilcexld,iq.qoihoidjqijqltdixcir ajilinjhtesxxeilridjld;
jqeseqrriLjlv’rijqlginlrirqqo,iehyqilidxrrqgiv vveqinjhajidjqieqlrd
ajloaqirjxayibhujdiv trdmiCtxbidjqivxld’rictlubqodltkirdqto,iCqgleelj
hoa thx rekilogibhegekiqkqgijhb;idjqiaehouhouiatqn,ildidjqixdjqt
gthcdhouiqog,iax egioxdir aaxtijhb;ibxtqidjloiqox ujinlrihdicxtidjqbidx
exxyidxidjqbrqe.qrmiCxtirxitq.xe.houekilssleehouinlridjqiNjhdqiNjleq’r
lrsqad,ilogirxiseloqdlthekirnhcdidjqiq.qt-axodtladhouiahtaeqrijqiblgq,
djldijqirqqbqgijxthwxodleekirnxxshoui sxoidjqbmiLogidjx ujidjqixdjqt
vxldr,i ojltbqg,irdheeijx.qtqgijltgivk;irdheeidjqkigltqgioxdis eeihodx
djqiqggkidxirdthyq,ieqrdidjldirjx egivqidjqirhuoleicxtidjqihordlod
gqrdt adhxoixcidjqifqxsltghwqgialrdlnlkr,iLjlvilogilee;ioxtihoidjld
alrqiax egidjqkidjqbrqe.qrijxsqidxiqralsqmiNhdjirdtlhohouiqkqr,idjqo,
djqkitqblhoqgixoidjqix dqtiqguqixcidjqightqc eiwxoq,injxrqiaqodtqijlg
oxnivqaxbqidjqixegiblo’rijqlgm

Bqlodhbq,ictxbidjqivquhoohouileeidjhrijlgivqqoigqrathqgictxbidjqirjhs’r
blrdijqlgr;ilogirz lthouijqtikltgr,irjqijlgivxtoqigxnoi sxoidjqiraqoq;
loginlrioxnirxiohuj,idjldiLjlvihoidjqinldqtijlheqgijqt!—“Rlheixo
djq”—v didjldibxbqodilivtqlyhouirqliglrjqgixoijhbictxbiBxvkiGhay,ilog
njqebqgijhbicxtidjqidhbqmiV dirdt uuehouix dixcihdilulho,ilogiajloahou
dxithrqixoilidxnqthouiatqrd,ijqirjx dqg,—“Rlheixoidjqinjleq!—Gth.qijhb
xcc!”

DjqiSqz xg’ristxnrinqtqisxhodqg;ilogivtqlyhoui sidjqiajltbqgiahtaeq,
rjqiqccqad leekisltdqgidjqinjhdqinjleqictxbijhri.hadhbmiLrijqir eeqoek
rnlbixcc,idjqivxldriceqnidxidjqitqra qm

GtluuqgihodxiRd vv’rivxldinhdjivexxg-rjxd,ivehogqgiqkqr,idjqinjhdq
vthoqialyhouihoijhrinthoyeqr;idjqiexouidqorhxoixciLjlv’rivxghek
rdtqoudjighgiatlay,ilogijqeseqrrekijqikhqegqgidxijhrivxgk’rigxxb:icxtil
dhbq,iekhouileeiat rjqgihoidjqivxddxbixciRd vv’rivxld,iehyqixoqidtxggqo
 ogqticxxdixcijqtgrixciqeqsjlodrmiCltihoelog,iolbqeqrrinlherialbqictxb
jhb,ilrigqrxeldqirx ogrictxbix ditl.hoqrm

V didjhrihodqorhdkixcijhrisjkrhaleistxrdtldhxoighgiv dirxib ajidjqibxtq
lvvtq.hldqihdmiHoiloihordlod’riaxbslrr,iutqldijqltdrirxbqdhbqriaxogqorq
dxixoqigqqsislou,idjqir bidxdleixcidjxrqirjleexnislhoriyhogekighcc rqg
djtx ujicqqveqtibqo’rinjxeqieh.qrmiLogirx,ir ajijqltdr,idjx ujir bbltk
hoiqlajixoqir ccqthou;irdhee,ihcidjqiuxgrigqatqqihd,ihoidjqhtiehcq-dhbq
luutquldqilinjxeqiluqixcinxq,injxeekiblgqi sixcihordlodloqx r
hodqorhdhqr;icxtiq.qoihoidjqhtisxhodeqrriaqodtqr,idjxrqioxveqiold tqr
axodlhoidjqiqodhtqiahta bcqtqoaqrixcihocqthxtirx erm

“Djqijltsxxo,”irlhgiLjlv,ijlecinlkithrhou,ilogigtluuhouekieqlohouixo
xoqivqogqgiltb—“hrihdirlcq?”

“Lkq,irht,icxtihdinlrioxdigltdqg;idjhrihrihd,”irlhgiRd vv,irjxnhouihdm

“Elkihdivqcxtqibq;—lokibhrrhouibqo?”

“Xoq,idnx,idjtqq,icx t,ich.q;—djqtqinqtqich.qixltr,irht,ilogijqtqiltq
ch.qibqom”

“Djld’riuxxgm—Jqesibq,iblo;iHinhrjidxirdlogmiRx,irx,iHirqqijhb!idjqtq!
djqtq!iuxhouidxieqqnltgirdhee;injldilieqlshouirsx d!—Jlogrixccictxbibq!
Djqiqdqtoleirlsit ori sihoiLjlv’rivxoqrilulho!iRqdidjqirlhe;ix dixltr;
djqijqeb!”

Hdihrixcdqoidjqialrqidjldinjqoilivxldihrirdx.q,ihdriatqn,ivqhouishayqg
 sivkiloxdjqtivxld,ijqesidxinxtyidjldirqaxogivxld;ilogidjqiajlrqihr
dj riaxodho qginhdjinjldihrialeeqgigx veq-vloyqgixltrmiHdinlridj rioxnm
V didjqilggqgisxnqtixcidjqivxldighgioxdiqz leidjqilggqgisxnqtixcidjq
njleq,icxtijqirqqbqgidxijl.qidtqveq-vloyqgijhriq.qtkicho;irnhbbhouinhdj
li.qexahdkinjhajiselhoekirjxnqg,idjldihcioxn,i ogqtidjqrq
ahta brdloaqr,is rjqgixo,idjqiajlrqinx egistx.qiloihogqchohdqek
stxexouqg,ihcioxdilijxsqeqrrixoq;ioxtiax egilokiatqniqog tqicxtirxiexou
lisqthxg,ir ajiloi ohodqtbhddqg,ihodqorqirdtlhohouildidjqixlt;ilidjhou
vltqekidxeqtlveqixoekihoirxbqixoqivthqci.hahrrhd gqmiDjqirjhsihdrqec,
djqo,ilrihdirxbqdhbqrijlssqor,ixccqtqgidjqibxrdistxbhrhouihodqtbqghldq
bqlorixcix.qtdlyhouidjqiajlrqmiLaaxtghouek,idjqivxldrioxniblgqicxtijqt,
loginqtqirxxoirnlkqgi sidxidjqhtiatloqr—djqidnxisltdrixcidjqintqayqg
vxldijl.houivqqoistq.hx rekirqa tqgivkijqt—logidjqoijxhrdhouiq.qtkdjhou
dxijqtirhgq,ilogirdlayhouijqtialo.lrijhuji s,ilogirhgqnlkr
x drdtqdajhouihdinhdjird o-rlher,iehyqidjqigx veq-fxhodqginhourixcilo
levldtxrr;idjqiSqz xgivxtqigxnoihoidjqieqqnltginlyqixciBxvk-GhaymiLd
djqinqeeiyoxno,ibqdjxghaihodqt.ler,idjqinjleq’riuehddqthouirsx dinlr
tqu eltekiloox oaqgictxbidjqiblooqgiblrd-jqlgr;iloginjqoijqinx egivq
tqsxtdqgilrif rdiuxoqigxno,iLjlvinx egidlyqidjqidhbq,ilogidjqoislahou
djqigqay,ivhoolaeq-nldajihoijlog,irxirxxoilridjqielrdirqaxogixcidjq
leexddqgijx tiqpshtqg,ijhri.xhaqinlrijqltgm—“Njxrqihridjqigx vexxoioxn?
G’kqirqqijhb?”ilogihcidjqitqsekinlr,iOx,irht!irdtlhujdnlkijqiaxbblogqg
djqbidxiehcdijhbidxijhrisqtajmiHoidjhrinlkidjqiglkinxtqixo;iLjlv,ioxn
lexcdilogibxdhxoeqrr;iloxo,i otqrdhouekislahouidjqiseloyrm

Lrijqinlridj rinleyhou,i ddqthouioxirx og,iqpaqsdidxijlheidjqibqo
lexcd,ixtidxivhgidjqbijxhrdilirlheirdheeijhujqt,ixtidxirstqlgixoqidxil
rdheeiutqldqtivtqlgdj—dj ridxilogictxislahou,ivqoqldjijhrirex ajqgijld,
ldiq.qtkid toijqislrrqgijhrixnointqayqgivxld,injhajijlgivqqoigtxssqg
 sxoidjqiz ltdqt-gqay,ilogielkidjqtqitq.qtrqg;ivtxyqoivxnidxirjlddqtqg
rdqtomiLdielrdijqisl rqgivqcxtqihd;ilogilrihoiloiletqlgkix.qt-aex gqg
rykictqrjidtxxsrixciaex grinheeirxbqdhbqrirlheilatxrr,irxix.qtidjqixeg
blo’riclaqidjqtqioxnirdxeqirxbqir ajilggqgiuexxbilridjhrm

Rd vvirlnijhbisl rq;ilogisqtjlsrihodqoghou,ioxdi.lhoek,idjx uj,idx
q.hoaqijhrixnoi olvldqgicxtdhd gq,ilogidj riyqqsi sili.lehlodiselaqiho
jhriAlsdlho’ribhog,ijqilg.loaqg,ilogiqkqhouidjqintqayiqpaelhbqg—“Djq
djhrdeqidjqilrritqc rqg;ihdisthayqgijhribx djidxxiyqqoek,irht;ijl!ijl!”

“Njldirx eeqrridjhouihridjhridjldiel ujrivqcxtqilintqay?iBlo,iblo!ighg
Hioxdiyoxnidjqqivtl.qilricqlteqrrichtqi(logilribqajlohale)iHiax eg
rnqltidjx inqtdilisxedtxxomiUtxloioxtiel ujirjx egivqijqltgivqcxtqil
ntqaym”

“Lkq,irht,”irlhgiRdltv ayigtlnhouioqlt,i“’dhrilirxeqboirhujd;iloixbqo,
logiloiheeixoqm”

“Xbqo?ixbqo?—djqighadhxoltk!iHcidjqiuxgridjhoyidxirsqlyix dthujdidx
blo,idjqkinheeijxoxtlvekirsqlyix dthujd;ioxdirjlyqidjqhtijqlgr,ilog
uh.qiloixeginh.qr’igltyehouijhodm—Vquxoq!iKqidnxiltqidjqixssxrhdqisxeqr
xcixoqidjhou;iRdltv ayihriRd vvitq.qtrqg,ilogiRd vvihriRdltv ay;ilogikq
dnxiltqileeibloyhog;ilogiLjlvirdlogrilexoqilbxouidjqibheehxorixcidjq
sqxseqgiqltdj,ioxtiuxgrioxtibqoijhrioqhujvxtr!iAxeg,iaxeg—Hirjh.qt!—Jxn
oxn?iLexcdidjqtq!iG’kqirqqijhb?iRhouix dicxtiq.qtkirsx d,idjx ujijq
rsx didqoidhbqrilirqaxog!”

Djqiglkinlrioqltekigxoq;ixoekidjqijqbixcijhriuxegqoitxvqinlrit rdehoum
Rxxo,ihdinlrilebxrdiglty,iv didjqiexxy-x dibqoirdheeitqblhoqgi orqdm

“Alo’dirqqidjqirsx dioxn,irht;—dxxiglty”—athqgili.xhaqictxbidjqilhtm

“Jxnijqlghouinjqoielrdirqqo?”

“Lrivqcxtq,irht,—rdtlhujdidxieqqnltgm”

“Uxxg!ijqinheeidtl.qeirexnqtioxni’dhriohujdmiGxnoitxklerilog
dxs-uleelodird o-rlher,iBtmiRdltv aymiNqib rdioxdit oix.qtijhbivqcxtq
bxtohou;ijq’riblyhouilislrrluqioxn,ilogiblkijql.q-dxilinjheqmiJqeb
djqtq!iyqqsijqtic eeivqcxtqidjqinhog!—Lexcd!iaxbqigxno!—BtmiRd vv,irqog
lictqrjijlogidxidjqicxtq-blrdijqlg,ilogirqqihdiblooqgidhee
bxtohoum”—Djqoilg.loahouidxnltgridjqigx vexxoihoidjqiblho-blrd—“Bqo,
djhriuxegihribhoq,icxtiHiqltoqgihd;iv diHirjleeieqdihdilvhgqijqtqidhee
djqiNjhdqiNjleqihrigqlg;ilogidjqo,injxrxq.qtixcikqichtrditlhrqrijhb,
 sxoidjqiglkijqirjleeivqiyheeqg,idjhriuxegihridjldiblo’r;ilogihcixo
djldiglkiHirjleeilulhoitlhrqijhb,idjqo,idqoidhbqrihdrir birjleeivq
gh.hgqgilbxouileeixcikq!iLnlkioxn!—djqigqayihridjhoq,irht!”

Logirxirlkhou,ijqiselaqgijhbrqecijlecinlkinhdjhoidjqira ddeq,ilog
rex ajhouijhrijld,irdxxgidjqtqidheeiglno,iqpaqsdinjqoildihodqt.ler
tx rhouijhbrqecidxirqqijxnidjqiohujdinxtqixom


AJLSDQTi134miDjqiAjlrq—RqaxogiGlkm

Ldiglk-vtqly,idjqidjtqqiblrd-jqlgrinqtqis oad leekiblooqgilctqrjm

“G’kqirqqijhb?”iathqgiLjlvilcdqtileexnhouiliehddeqirslaqicxtidjqiehujd
dxirstqlgm

“Rqqioxdjhou,irhtm”

“D toi sileeijlogrilogiblyqirlhe!ijqidtl.qericlrdqtidjloiHidjx ujd
cxt;—djqidxs-uleelodirlher!—lkq,idjqkirjx egijl.qivqqoiyqsdixoijqtilee
ohujdmiV dioxiblddqt—’dhriv ditqrdhouicxtidjqit rjm”

Jqtqivqihdirlhg,idjldidjhrisqtdholahx ris tr hdixcixoqisltdha elt
njleq,iaxodho qgidjtx ujiglkihodxiohujd,ilogidjtx ujiohujdihodxiglk,ihr
lidjhouivkioxibqlori ostqaqgqodqgihoidjqiRx djirqlichrjqtkmiCxtir ajihr
djqinxogqtc eiryhee,istqrahqoaqixciqpsqthqoaq,ilogiho.hoahveq
axochgqoaqilaz htqgivkirxbqiutqldiold tleiuqoh rqrilbxouidjqiOlod ayqd
axbblogqtr;idjldictxbidjqirhbseqixvrqt.ldhxoixcilinjleqinjqoielrd
gqrathqg,idjqkinhee,i ogqtiaqtdlhoiuh.qoiahta brdloaqr,istqddk
laa tldqekicxtqdqeeivxdjidjqightqadhxoihoinjhajijqinheeiaxodho qidx
rnhbicxtilidhbq,injheqix dixcirhujd,ilrinqeeilrijhristxvlveqitldqixc
stxutqrrhxoig thouidjldisqthxgmiLog,ihoidjqrqialrqr,irxbqnjldilril
shexd,injqoilvx diexrhouirhujdixciliaxlrd,injxrqiuqoqtleidtqoghouijq
nqeeiyoxnr,iloginjhajijqigqrhtqrirjxtdekidxitqd toidxilulho,iv dild
rxbqic tdjqtisxhod;iehyqilridjhrishexdirdlogrivkijhriaxbslrr,ilogidlyqr
djqistqahrqivqlthouixcidjqialsqildistqrqodi.hrhveq,ihoixtgqtidjqibxtq
aqtdlhoekidxijhdilthujdidjqitqbxdq,i orqqoijqlgelog,iq.qod leekidxivq
.hrhdqg:irxigxqridjqichrjqtblo,ildijhriaxbslrr,inhdjidjqinjleq;icxt
lcdqtivqhouiajlrqg,ilogighehuqodekibltyqg,idjtx ujirq.qtleijx trixc
glkehujd,idjqo,injqoiohujdixvra tqridjqichrj,idjqiatqld tq’ric d tq
nlyqidjtx ujidjqigltyoqrrihrilebxrdilriqrdlvehrjqgidxidjqirlulahx r
bhogixcidjqij odqt,ilridjqishexd’riaxlrdihridxijhbmiRxidjldidxidjhr
j odqt’rinxogtx riryhee,idjqistx.qtvhleiq.loqraqoaqixcilidjhouinthdiho
nldqt,ilinlyq,ihridxileeigqrhtqgis tsxrqrinqeeiohujilritqehlveqilridjq
rdqlgclrdielogmiLogilridjqibhujdkihtxoiEq.hldjloixcidjqibxgqtoitlhenlk
hrirxiclbhehltekiyoxnoihoihdriq.qtkislaq,idjld,inhdjinldajqrihoidjqht
jlogr,ibqoidhbqijhritldqilrigxadxtridjldixcilivlvk’ris erq;ilogiehujdek
rlkixcihd,idjqi sidtlhoixtidjqigxnoidtlhoinheeitqlajir ajixtir ajil
rsxd,ildir ajixtir ajiloijx t;iq.qoirx,ilebxrd,idjqtqiltqixaalrhxor
njqoidjqrqiOlod ayqdqtridhbqidjldixdjqtiEq.hldjloixcidjqigqqs,
laaxtghouidxidjqixvrqt.qgij bxtixcijhrirsqqg;ilogirlkidxidjqbrqe.qr,irx
blokijx trijqoaqidjhrinjleqinheeijl.qiuxoqidnxij ogtqgibheqr,inheeijl.q
lvx ditqlajqgidjhrixtidjldigqutqqixcieldhd gqixtiexouhd gqmiV didx
tqogqtidjhrila dqoqrrildileeir aaqrrc eihoidjqiqog,idjqinhogilogidjq
rqlib rdivqidjqinjleqblo’rileehqr;icxtixcinjldistqrqodil.lheidxidjq
vqalebqgixtinhogvx ogiblthoqtihridjqiryheeidjldilrr tqrijhbijqihr
qpladekiohoqdk-djtqqieqlu qrilogiliz ltdqtictxbijhrisxtd?iHocqtlveq
ctxbidjqrqirdldqbqodr,iltqiblokiaxeeldqtleir vdheqiblddqtridx ajhouidjq
ajlrqixcinjleqrm

Djqirjhsidxtqixo;ieql.houir ajilic ttxnihoidjqirqlilrinjqoil
alooxo-vlee,ibhrrqod,ivqaxbqrilisex uj-rjltqilogid tori sidjqieq.qe
chqegm

“Vkirledilogijqbs!”iathqgiRd vv,i“v didjhrirnhcdibxdhxoixcidjqigqay
atqqsri sixoq’riequrilogidhoueqrildidjqijqltdmiDjhrirjhsilogiHiltqidnx
vtl.qicqeexnr!—Jl,ijl!iRxbqixoqidlyqibqi s,ilogiel oajibq,irshoq-nhrq,
xoidjqirql,—cxtivkieh.q-xlyr!ibkirshoq’riliyqqemiJl,ijl!inqiuxidjqiulhd
djldieql.qrioxig rdivqjhog!”

“Djqtqirjqivexnr—rjqivexnr!—rjqivexnr!—thujdiljqlg!”inlrioxnidjq
blrd-jqlgiatkm

“Lkq,ilkq!”iathqgiRd vv,i“Hiyoqnihd—kqialo’diqralsq—vexnixoilogirsehd
kx tirsx d,iXinjleq!idjqiblgichqogijhbrqecihrilcdqtikq!ivexnikx t
dt bs—vehrdqtikx tie our!—Ljlvinheeiglbixccikx tivexxg,ilrilibheeqt
rj drijhrinldqtuldqi sxoidjqirdtqlb!”

LogiRd vvighgiv dirsqlyix dicxtinqeeiohujileeidjldiatqnmiDjqictqowhqr
xcidjqiajlrqijlgivkidjhridhbqinxtyqgidjqbiv vvehoueki s,iehyqixeginhoq
nxtyqgiloqnmiNjldq.qtisleqicqltrilogicxtqvxghourirxbqixcidjqbibhujd
jl.qicqedivqcxtq;idjqrqinqtqioxdixoekioxniyqsdix dixcirhujdidjtx ujidjq
utxnhouilnqixciLjlv,iv didjqkinqtqivtxyqoi s,ilogixoileeirhgqritx dqg,
lridhbhgistlhthqijltqridjldiralddqtivqcxtqidjqivx oghouivhrxomiDjqijlog
xciCldqijlgiroldajqgileeidjqhtirx er;ilogivkidjqirdhtthouisqtherixcidjq
stq.hx riglk;idjqitlayixcidjqislrdiohujd’rir rsqorq;idjqichpqg,
 ocqlthou,ivehog,itqayeqrrinlkihoinjhajidjqhtinhegiatlcdinqodise ouhou
dxnltgrihdricekhouiblty;ivkileeidjqrqidjhour,idjqhtijqltdrinqtqivxneqg
lexoumiDjqinhogidjldiblgqiutqldivqeehqrixcidjqhtirlher,ilogit rjqgidjq
.qrrqeixoivkiltbriho.hrhveqilrihttqrhrdhveq;idjhrirqqbqgidjqirkbvxeixc
djldi orqqoiluqoakinjhajirxiqorel.qgidjqbidxidjqitlaqm

Djqkinqtqixoqiblo,ioxdidjhtdkmiCxtilridjqixoqirjhsidjldijqegidjqbilee;
djx ujihdinlris didxuqdjqtixcileeiaxodtlrdhouidjhour—xly,ilogiblseq,
logishoqinxxg;ihtxo,ilogishdaj,ilogijqbs—kqdileeidjqrqitloihodxiqlaj
xdjqtihoidjqixoqiaxoatqdqij ee,injhajirjxdixoihdrinlk,ivxdjivleloaqg
logightqadqgivkidjqiexouiaqodtleiyqqe;iq.qoirx,ileeidjqihogh.hg lehdhqr
xcidjqiatqn,idjhriblo’ri.lext,idjldiblo’ricqlt;iu hedilogiu hedhoqrr,
leei.lthqdhqrinqtqinqegqgihodxixoqoqrr,iloginqtqileeightqadqgidxidjld
cldleiuxleinjhajiLjlvidjqhtixoqiextgilogiyqqeighgisxhodidxm

Djqithuuhouieh.qgmiDjqiblrd-jqlgr,iehyqidjqidxsrixcidleeislebr,inqtq
x drstqlghouekid cdqginhdjiltbrilogiequrmiAehouhouidxilirsltinhdjixoq
jlog,irxbqitqlajqgicxtdjidjqixdjqtinhdjihbsldhqodinl.hour;ixdjqtr,
rjlghouidjqhtiqkqrictxbidjqi.h.hgir oehujd,irldicltix dixoidjqitxayhou
kltgr;ileeidjqirsltrihoic eeivqlthouixcibxtdler,itqlgkilogithsqicxt
djqhticldqmiLj!ijxnidjqkirdheeirdtx.qidjtx ujidjldihochohdqive qoqrridx
rqqyix didjqidjhouidjldibhujdigqrdtxkidjqb!

“Njkirhouikqioxdix dicxtijhb,ihcikqirqqijhb?”iathqgiLjlv,injqo,ilcdqt
djqielsrqixcirxbqibho dqrirhoaqidjqichtrdiatk,ioxibxtqijlgivqqoijqltgm
“Rnlkibqi s,ibqo;ikqijl.qivqqoigqaqh.qg;ioxdiBxvkiGhayialrdrixoqixgg
fqdidjldinlk,ilogidjqoighrlssqltrm”

Hdinlriq.qoirx;ihoidjqhtijqlgexouiqluqtoqrr,idjqibqoijlgibhrdlyqoirxbq
xdjqtidjhouicxtidjqinjleq-rsx d,ilridjqiq.qodihdrqecirxxoistx.qg;icxt
jltgekijlgiLjlvitqlajqgijhrisqtaj;ijltgekinlridjqitxsqivqelkqgidxihdr
shoixoigqay,injqoijqirdt ayidjqiyqk-oxdqidxiloixtajqrdtl,idjldiblgqidjq
lhti.hvtldqilrinhdjidjqiaxbvhoqgighrajltuqrixcithceqrmiDjqidth bsjlod
jleexxixcidjhtdkiv ayryhoie ourinlrijqltg,ilr—b ajioqltqtidxidjqirjhs
djloidjqiselaqixcidjqihbluholtkifqd,ieqrridjloilibheqiljqlg—BxvkiGhay
vxghekiv trdihodxi.hqn!iCxtioxdivkilokialebilogihogxeqodirsx dhour;ioxd
vkidjqisqlaqlveqiu rjixcidjldibkrdhaicx odlhoihoijhrijqlg,ighgidjq
NjhdqiNjleqioxnitq.qleijhri.hahohdk;iv divkidjqicltibxtqinxogtx r
sjqoxbqoxoixcivtqlajhoumiThrhouinhdjijhri dbxrdi.qexahdkictxbidjq
c tdjqrdigqsdjr,idjqiRsqtbiNjleqidj rivxxbrijhriqodhtqiv eyihodxidjq
s tqiqeqbqodixcilht,ilogishehoui silibx odlhoixciglwwehouicxlb,irjxnr
jhriselaqidxidjqighrdloaqixcirq.qoibheqrilogibxtqmiHoidjxrqibxbqodr,
djqidxto,iqotluqginl.qrijqirjlyqrixcc,irqqbijhribloq;ihoirxbqialrqr,
djhrivtqlajhouihrijhriladixcigqchloaqm

“Djqtqirjqivtqlajqr!idjqtqirjqivtqlajqr!”inlridjqiatk,ilrihoijhr
hbbqlr tlveqivtl.lgxqridjqiNjhdqiNjleqidxrrqgijhbrqecirlebxo-ehyqidx
Jql.qomiRxir ggqoekirqqoihoidjqive qiselhoixcidjqirql,ilogitqehq.qg
lulhordidjqirdheeive qtibltuhoixcidjqiryk,idjqirstlkidjldijqitlhrqg,
cxtidjqibxbqod,ihodxeqtlvekiuehddqtqgilogiueltqgiehyqiliuelahqt;ilog
rdxxgidjqtqiutlg leekiclghouilogiclghouilnlkictxbihdrichtrdirsltyehou
hodqorhdk,idxidjqighbibhrdhoqrrixciloilg.loahouirjxnqtihoili.leqm

“Lkq,ivtqlajikx tielrdidxidjqir o,iBxvkiGhay!”iathqgiLjlv,i“djkijx t
logidjkijltsxxoiltqildijlog!—Gxno!igxnoileeixcikq,iv dixoqibloildidjq
cxtqmiDjqivxldr!—rdlogivk!”

 obhogc eixcidjqidqghx ritxsq-elggqtrixcidjqirjtx gr,idjqibqo,iehyq
rjxxdhouirdltr,irehgidxidjqigqay,ivkidjqihrxeldqgivlayrdlkrilog
jlekltgr;injheqiLjlv,ieqrrigltdhouek,iv dirdheeitlshgekinlrigtxssqg
ctxbijhrisqtajm

“Exnqtilnlk,”ijqiathqg,irxirxxoilrijqijlgitqlajqgijhrivxld—lirsltqixoq,
thuuqgidjqilcdqtoxxoistq.hx rmi“BtmiRdltv ay,idjqirjhsihridjhoq—yqqs
lnlkictxbidjqivxldr,iv diyqqsioqltidjqbmiExnqt,ilee!”

Lrihcidxirdthyqiliz hayidqttxtihodxidjqb,ivkidjhridhbqivqhouidjqichtrd
lrrlhelodijhbrqec,iBxvkiGhayijlgid toqg,iloginlrioxniaxbhouicxtidjq
djtqqiatqnrmiLjlv’rivxldinlriaqodtle;ilogiajqqthouijhribqo,ijqidxeg
djqbijqinx egidlyqidjqinjleqijqlg-log-jqlg,—djldihr,is eeirdtlhujdi s
dxijhricxtqjqlg,—lioxdi oaxbbxoidjhou;icxtinjqoinhdjhoiliaqtdlhoiehbhd,
r ajiliax trqiqpae gqridjqiaxbhouixorqdictxbidjqinjleq’rirhgqexou
.hrhxomiV diqtqidjldiaexrqiehbhdinlriulhoqg,iloginjheqikqdileeidjtqq
vxldrinqtqiselhoilridjqirjhs’ridjtqqiblrdridxijhriqkq;idjqiNjhdqiNjleq
aj tohouijhbrqecihodxic thx rirsqqg,ilebxrdihoiloihordlodilrihdinqtq,
t rjhouilbxouidjqivxldrinhdjixsqoiflnr,ilogilielrjhouidlhe,ixccqtqg
lssleehouivlddeqixoiq.qtkirhgq;ilogijqqgeqrrixcidjqihtxorigltdqgildijhb
ctxbiq.qtkivxld,irqqbqgixoekihodqodixoiloohjheldhouiqlajirqsltldqiseloy
xcinjhajidjxrqivxldrinqtqiblgqmiV diryhec eekibloœ .tqg,ihoaqrrlodek
njqqehouiehyqidtlhoqgiajltuqtrihoidjqichqeg;idjqivxldricxtilinjheq
qe gqgijhb;idjx uj,ildidhbqr,iv divkiliseloy’rivtqlgdj;injheqileeidjq
dhbq,iLjlv’ri oqltdjekirexuloidxtqiq.qtkixdjqtiatkiv dijhridxirjtqgrm

V dildielrdihoijhri odtlaqlveqiq.xe dhxor,idjqiNjhdqiNjleqirxiatxrrqg
logitqatxrrqg,ilogihoilidjx rloginlkriqodloueqgidjqirelayixcidjqidjtqq
ehoqrioxniclrdidxijhb,idjldidjqkicxtqrjxtdqoqg,ilog,ixcidjqbrqe.qr,
nltsqgidjqigq.xdqgivxldridxnltgridjqiselodqgihtxorihoijhb;idjx ujioxn
cxtilibxbqodidjqinjleqigtqnilrhgqiliehddeq,ilrihcidxitleekicxtilibxtq
dtqbqogx riajltuqmiRqhwhouidjldixssxtd ohdk,iLjlvichtrdislhgix dibxtq
ehoq:ilogidjqoinlritlshgekijl ehouilogifqtyhouihoi sxoihdilulho—jxshou
djldinlkidxighrqoa bvqtihdixcirxbqirolter—njqoiex!—lirhujdibxtqirl.luq
djloidjqiqbvlddeqgidqqdjixcirjltyr!

Al ujdilogidnhrdqg—axtyratqnqgihoidjqiblwqrixcidjqiehoq,iexxrqijltsxxor
logieloaqr,inhdjileeidjqhtivthrdehouivltvrilogisxhodr,ialbqicelrjhou
logigthsshoui sidxidjqiajxayrihoidjqivxnrixciLjlv’rivxldmiXoekixoq
djhouiax egivqigxoqmiRqhwhouidjqivxld-yohcq,ijqiathdhaleekitqlajqg
nhdjho—djtx uj—logidjqo,inhdjx d—djqitlkrixcirdqqe;igtluuqgihoidjqiehoq
vqkxog,islrrqgihd,ihovxltg,idxidjqivxnrblo,ilogidjqo,idnhaqir ogqthou
djqitxsqioqltidjqiajxayr—gtxssqgidjqihodqtaqsdqgicluxdixcirdqqeihodx
djqirql;iloginlrileeiclrdilulhomiDjldihordlod,idjqiNjhdqiNjleqiblgqil
r ggqoit rjilbxouidjqitqblhohouidloueqrixcidjqixdjqtiehoqr;ivkirx
gxhou,ihttqrhrdhvekigtluuqgidjqibxtqiho.xe.qgivxldrixciRd vvilogiCelry
dxnltgrijhrice yqr;iglrjqgidjqbidxuqdjqtiehyqidnxitxeehouij ryrixoil
r tc-vqldqoivqlaj,ilogidjqo,igh.houigxnoihodxidjqirql,ighrlssqltqgihoil
vxhehouiblqerdtxb,ihoinjhaj,icxtilirslaq,idjqixgxtx riaqgltiajhsrixc
djqintqayrigloaqgitx ogilogitx og,iehyqidjqiutldqgio dbquihoilirnhcdek
rdhttqgivxneixcis oajm

Njheqidjqidnxiatqnrinqtqikqdiahtaehouihoidjqinldqtr,itqlajhouix dilcdqt
djqitq.xe.houiehoq-d vr,ixltr,ilogixdjqticexldhouic tohd tq,injheq
lrexsqiehddeqiCelryivxvvqgi silogigxnoiehyqiloiqbsdki.hle,idnhdajhou
jhriequri snltgridxiqralsqidjqigtqlgqgiflnrixcirjltyr;ilogiRd vvinlr
e rdhekirhouhouix dicxtirxbqixoqidxielgeqijhbi s;iloginjheqidjqixeg
blo’riehoq—oxnisltdhou—lgbhddqgixcijhris eehouihodxidjqiatqlbkisxxeidx
tqra qinjxbijqiax eg;—hoidjldinhegirhb edloqx roqrrixcilidjx rlog
axoatqdqgisqther,—Ljlv’rikqdi ordthayqoivxldirqqbqgigtlnoi sidxnltgr
Jql.qoivkiho.hrhveqinhtqr,—lr,ilttxn-ehyq,irjxxdhouisqtsqogha eltek
ctxbidjqirql,idjqiNjhdqiNjleqiglrjqgijhrivtxlgicxtqjqlgilulhordihdr
vxddxb,ilogirqodihd,id tohouix.qtilogix.qt,ihodxidjqilht;idheeihdicqee
lulho—u onleqigxnonltgr—logiLjlvilogijhribqoirdt uueqgix dictxbi ogqt
hd,iehyqirqlerictxbilirql-rhgqial.qm

Djqichtrdi sthrhouibxbqod bixcidjqinjleq—bxghckhouihdrightqadhxoilrijq
rdt ayidjqir tclaq—ho.xe odlthekiel oajqgijhbilexouihd,idxiliehddeq
ghrdloaqictxbidjqiaqodtqixcidjqigqrdt adhxoijqijlgiblgq;iloginhdjijhr
vlayidxihd,ijqioxnielkicxtilibxbqodirexnekicqqehouinhdjijhrice yqrictxb
rhgqidxirhgq;iloginjqoq.qtilirdtlkixlt,ivhdixciseloy,idjqieqlrdiajhsixt
at bvixcidjqivxldridx ajqgijhriryho,ijhridlheirnhcdekigtqnivlay,ilog
albqirhgqnlkrirbhdhouidjqirqlmiV dirxxo,ilrihcirldhrchqgidjldijhrinxty
cxtidjldidhbqinlrigxoq,ijqis rjqgijhriseqldqgicxtqjqlgidjtx ujidjq
xaqlo,ilogidtlhehouilcdqtijhbidjqihodqtdloueqgiehoqr,iaxodho qgijhr
eqqnltginlkildilidtl.qeeqt’ribqdjxghaislaqm

Lrivqcxtq,idjqilddqodh.qirjhsijl.houigqrathqgidjqinjxeqichujd,ilulho
albqivqlthouigxnoidxidjqitqra q,ilogigtxsshouilivxld,ishayqgi sidjq
cexldhouiblthoqtr,id vr,ixltr,iloginjldq.qtiqerqiax egivqial ujdild,
logirlcqekielogqgidjqbixoijqtigqayrmiRxbqirstlhoqgirjx egqtr,inthrdr,
logiloyeqr;ieh.hgiaxod rhxor;intqoajqgijltsxxorilogieloaqr;
hoqpdthalveqihodthalahqrixcitxsq;irjlddqtqgixltrilogiseloyr;ileeidjqrq
nqtqidjqtq;iv dioxicldleixtiq.qoirqthx riheeirqqbqgidxijl.qivqcleeqo
lokixoqmiLrinhdjiCqgleeljidjqiglkivqcxtq,irxiLjlvinlrioxnicx ogiuthbek
aehouhouidxijhrivxld’rivtxyqoijlec,injhajilccxtgqgiliaxbsltldh.qekiqlrk
cexld;ioxtighgihdirxiqpjl rdijhbilridjqistq.hx riglk’ribhrjlsm

V dinjqoijqinlrijqesqgidxidjqigqay,ileeiqkqrinqtqiclrdqoqgi sxoijhb;ilr
hordqlgixcirdloghouivkijhbrqecijqirdheeijlec-j oui sxoidjqirjx egqtixc
Rdltv ay,injxijlgidj ricltivqqoidjqicxtqbxrdidxilrrhrdijhbmiJhrih.xtk
equijlgivqqoirolssqgixcc,ieql.houiv dixoqirjxtdirjltsirsehodqtm

“Lkq,ilkq,iRdltv ay,i’dhrirnqqdidxieqloirxbqdhbqr,ivqidjqieqloqtinjxijq
nhee;iloginx egixegiLjlvijlgieqloqgixcdqoqtidjloijqijlrm”

“Djqicqtt eqijlrioxdirdxxg,irht,”irlhgidjqialtsqodqt,ioxniaxbhoui s;i“H
s diuxxginxtyihodxidjldiequm”

“V dioxivxoqrivtxyqo,irht,iHijxsq,”irlhgiRd vvinhdjidt qiaxoaqtom

“Lkq!ilogileeirsehodqtqgidxishqaqr,iRd vv!—g’kqirqqihdm—V diq.qoinhdjil
vtxyqoivxoq,ixegiLjlvihri odx ajqg;ilogiHilaax odioxieh.houivxoqixc
bhoqixoqifxdibxtqibq,idjloidjhrigqlgixoqidjld’riexrdmiOxtinjhdqinjleq,
oxtiblo,ioxtichqog,ialoirxib ajilriutlwqixegiLjlvihoijhrixnoistxsqtilog
holaaqrrhveqivqhoumiAloilokieqlgidx ajikxogqticexxt,ilokiblrdiratlsq
kxogqtitxxc?—Lexcdidjqtq!injhajinlk?”

“Gqlgidxieqqnltg,irhtm”

“ sijqeb,idjqo;isheqixoidjqirlheilulho,irjhsiyqqsqtr!igxnoidjqitqrdixc
djqirsltqivxldrilogithuidjqb—BtmiRdltv ayilnlk,ilogib rdqtidjqivxld’r
atqnrm”

“Eqdibqichtrdijqesidjqqidxnltgridjqiv enltyr,irhtm”

“Xj,ixj,ixj!ijxnidjhrirsehodqtiuxtqribqioxn!iLaa trqgicldq!idjldidjq
 oaxoz qtlveqialsdlhoihoidjqirx eirjx egijl.qir ajiliatl.qoibldq!”

“Rht?”

“Bkivxgk,iblo,ioxdidjqqmiUh.qibqirxbqdjhouicxtilialoq—djqtq,idjld
rjh.qtqgieloaqinheeigxmiB rdqtidjqibqomiR tqekiHijl.qioxdirqqoijhbikqdm
Vkijql.qoihdialooxdivq!—bhrrhou?—z hay!ialeeidjqbileem”

Djqixegiblo’rijhodqgidjx ujdinlridt qmi sxoib rdqthouidjqiaxbslok,idjq
Sltrqqinlrioxdidjqtqm

“DjqiSltrqq!”iathqgiRd vv—“jqib rdijl.qivqqoial ujdiho——”

“Djqivelayi.xbhdintqoajidjqq!—t oileeixcikqilvx.q,ilexn,ialvho,
cxtqalrdeq—chogijhb—oxdiuxoq—oxdiuxoq!”

V diz hayekidjqkitqd toqgidxijhbinhdjidjqidhghouridjldidjqiSltrqqinlr
oxnjqtqidxivqicx ogm

“Lkq,irht,”irlhgiRd vv—“al ujdilbxouidjqidloueqrixcikx tiehoq—Hidjx ujd
Hirlnijhbigtluuhoui ogqtm”

“_Bk_iehoq!i_bk_iehoq?iUxoq?—uxoq?iNjldibqloridjldiehddeqinxtg?—Njld
gqldj-yoqeeithourihoihd,idjldixegiLjlvirjlyqrilrihcijqinqtqidjqivqectkm
Djqijltsxxo,idxx!—dxrrix.qtidjqiehddqtidjqtq,—g’kqirqqihd?—djqicxtuqg
htxo,ibqo,idjqinjhdqinjleq’r—ox,iox,iox,—vehrdqtqgicxxe!idjhrijlogighg
gltdihd!—’dhrihoidjqichrj!—Lexcdidjqtq!iYqqsijhbiolheqg—Z hay!—lee
jlogridxidjqithuuhouixcidjqivxldr—axeeqadidjqixltr—jltsxxoqqtr!idjq
htxor,idjqihtxor!—jxhrdidjqitxklerijhujqt—lis eeixoileeidjq
rjqqdr!—jqebidjqtq!irdqlgk,irdqlgkicxtikx tiehcq!iH’eeidqoidhbqriuhtgeq
djqi obqlr tqgiuexvq;ikqlilogigh.qirdtlhujdidjtx ujihd,iv diH’eeirelk
jhbikqd!”

“UtqldiUxg!iv dicxtixoqirhoueqihordlodirjxnidjkrqec,”iathqgiRdltv ay;
“oq.qt,ioq.qtinhedidjx ialsd tqijhb,ixegiblo—HoiFqr r’iolbqioxibxtqixc
djhr,idjld’rinxtrqidjloigq.he’riblgoqrrmiDnxiglkriajlrqg;idnhaqirdx.q
dxirsehodqtr;idjki.qtkiequixoaqibxtqiroldajqgictxbi ogqtidjqq;idjkiq.he
rjlgxniuxoq—leeiuxxgilouqeribxvvhouidjqqinhdjinltohour:—njldibxtq
nx egrdidjx ijl.q?—Rjleeinqiyqqsiajlrhouidjhrib tgqtx richrjidheeijq
rnlbsridjqielrdiblo?iRjleeinqivqigtluuqgivkijhbidxidjqivxddxbixcidjq
rql?iRjleeinqivqidxnqgivkijhbidxidjqihocqtoleinxteg?iXj,ixj,—Hbshqdk
logivelrsjqbkidxij odijhbibxtq!”

“Rdltv ay,ixcieldqiH’.qicqedirdtlouqekibx.qgidxidjqq;iq.qtirhoaqidjld
jx tinqivxdjirln—djx iyoxn’rdinjld,ihoixoqiloxdjqt’riqkqrmiV dihoidjhr
blddqtixcidjqinjleq,ivqidjqictxodixcidjkiclaqidxibqilridjqislebixcidjhr
jlog—liehseqrr,i ocqld tqgiveloymiLjlvihricxtiq.qtiLjlv,iblomiDjhr
njxeqilad’rihbb dlvekigqatqqgmi’Dnlritqjqltrqgivkidjqqilogibqilivheehxo
kqltrivqcxtqidjhrixaqloitxeeqgmiCxxe!iHilbidjqiCldqr’iehq dqolod;iHilad
 ogqtixtgqtrmiExxyidjx ,i ogqtehou!idjldidjx ixvqkqrdibhoqm—Rdlogitx og
bq,ibqomiKqirqqiloixegibloia digxnoidxidjqird bs;ieqlohouixoilirjh.qtqg
eloaq;istxssqgi sixoiliexoqekicxxdmi’DhriLjlv—jhrivxgk’risltd;iv d
Ljlv’rirx e’riliaqodhsqgq,idjldibx.qri sxoilij ogtqgiequrmiHicqqe
rdtlhoqg,ijlecirdtlogqg,ilritxsqridjldidxnighrblrdqgicthuldqrihoil
uleq;ilogiHiblkiexxyirxmiV diqtqiHivtqly,ikq’eeijqltibqiatlay;ilogidhee
kqijqlti_djld_,iyoxnidjldiLjlv’rijlnrqtidxnrijhris tsxrqikqdmiVqehq.q
kq,ibqo,ihoidjqidjhourialeeqgixbqor?iDjqoiel ujilex g,ilogiatkiqoaxtq!
Cxtiqtqidjqkigtxno,igtxnohouidjhourinheeidnhaqithrqidxidjqir tclaq;
djqoithrqilulho,idxirhoyicxtiq.qtbxtqmiRxinhdjiBxvkiGhay—dnxiglkrijq’r
cexldqg—dxbxttxninheeivqidjqidjhtgmiLkq,ibqo,ijq’eeithrqixoaqibxtq,—v d
xoekidxirsx dijhrielrd!iG’kqicqqeivtl.qibqo,ivtl.q?”

“Lricqlteqrrichtq,”iathqgiRd vvm

“Logilribqajlohale,”ib ddqtqgiLjlvmiDjqoilridjqibqoinqodicxtnltg,ijq
b ddqtqgixo:i“Djqidjhourialeeqgixbqor!iLogikqrdqtglkiHidleyqgidjqirlbq
dxiRdltv ayidjqtq,iaxoaqtohouibkivtxyqoivxldmiXj!ijxni.lehlodekiHirqqy
dxigth.qix dixcixdjqtr’ijqltdrinjld’riaehoajqgirxiclrdihoibhoq!—Djq
Sltrqq—djqiSltrqq!—uxoq,iuxoq?ilogijqinlridxiuxivqcxtq:—v dirdheeinlr
dxivqirqqoilulhoiqtqiHiax egisqthrj—Jxn’ridjld?—Djqtq’rilithggeqioxn
bhujdivlcceqileeidjqielnkqtrivlayqgivkidjqiujxrdrixcidjqinjxeqiehoqixc
f guqr:—ehyqilijlny’rivqlyihdisqayribkivtlhomi_H’ee_,i_H’ee_irxe.qihd,
djx uj!”

Njqoig ryigqraqogqg,idjqinjleqinlrirdheeihoirhujdidxieqqnltgm

Rxixoaqibxtqidjqirlheinlrirjxtdqoqg,ilogiq.qtkdjhouislrrqgioqltekilrixo
djqistq.hx riohujd;ixoek,idjqirx ogixcijlbbqtr,ilogidjqij bixcidjq
uthogrdxoqinlrijqltgidheeioqltekiglkehujd,ilridjqibqoidxheqgivk
elodqtorihoidjqiaxbseqdqilogialtqc eithuuhouixcidjqirsltqivxldrilog
rjltsqohouidjqhtictqrjinqlsxoricxtidjqibxttxnmiBqlodhbq,ixcidjqivtxyqo
yqqeixciLjlv’rintqayqgiatlcdidjqialtsqodqtiblgqijhbiloxdjqtiequ;injheq
rdheeilrixoidjqiohujdivqcxtq,irex ajqgiLjlvirdxxgichpqginhdjhoijhr
ra ddeq;ijhrijhg,ijqehxdtxsqiueloaqilodhahsldhouekiuxoqivlaynltgixoihdr
ghle;irldig qiqlrdnltgicxtidjqiqltehqrdir om


AJLSDQTi135miDjqiAjlrqm—DjhtgiGlkm

Djqibxtohouixcidjqidjhtgiglkiglnoqgiclhtilogictqrj,ilogixoaqibxtqidjq
rxehdltkiohujd-bloildidjqicxtq-blrd-jqlginlritqehq.qgivkiatxngrixcidjq
glkehujdiexxy-x dr,injxigxddqgiq.qtkiblrdilogilebxrdiq.qtkirsltm

“G’kqirqqijhb?”iathqgiLjlv;iv didjqinjleqinlrioxdikqdihoirhujdm

“Hoijhrihocleehveqinlyq,idjx uj;iv dicxeexnidjldinlyq,idjld’rileemiJqeb
djqtq;irdqlgk,ilridjx iuxqrd,ilogijlrdivqqoiuxhoumiNjldiliex.qekiglk
lulho!inqtqihdilioqn-blgqinxteg,ilogiblgqicxtilir bbqt-jx rqidxidjq
louqer,ilogidjhribxtohouidjqichtrdixcihdridjtxnhouixsqoidxidjqb,il
clhtqtiglkiax egioxdiglnoi sxoidjldinxtegmiJqtq’ricxxgicxtidjx ujd,ijlg
Ljlvidhbqidxidjhoy;iv diLjlvioq.qtidjhoyr;ijqixoekicqqer,icqqer,icqqer;
_djld’r_idhouehouiqox ujicxtibxtdleiblo!idxidjhoy’ril glahdkmiUxgixoek
jlridjldithujdilogisth.hequqmiDjhoyhouihr,ixtix ujdidxivq,iliaxxeoqrr
logilialeboqrr;ilogix tisxxtijqltdridjtxv,ilogix tisxxtivtlhorivqldidxx
b ajicxtidjldmiLogikqd,iH’.qirxbqdhbqridjx ujdibkivtlhoinlri.qtk
aleb—ctxwqoialeb,idjhrixegiry eeiatlayrirx,iehyqiliuelrrihoinjhajidjq
axodqodrid toqgidxihaq,ilogirjh.qtihdmiLogirdheeidjhrijlhtihriutxnhou
oxn;idjhribxbqodiutxnhou,ilogijqldib rdivtqqgihd;iv diox,ihd’riehyq
djldirxtdixciaxbbxoiutlrridjldinheeiutxniloknjqtq,ivqdnqqoidjqiqltdjk
aeqcdrixciUtqqoelogihaqixtihoi.qr .h riel.lmiJxnidjqinheginhogrivexn
hd;idjqkinjhsihdilvx dibqilridjqidxtoirjtqgrixcirsehdirlherielrjidjq
dxrrqgirjhsidjqkiaehouidxmiLi.heqinhogidjldijlrioxigx vdivexnoiqtqidjhr
djtx ujisthrxoiaxtthgxtrilogiaqeer,iloginltgrixcijxrshdler,ilog
.qodheldqgidjqb,ilogioxniaxbqrivexnhouijhdjqtilrihooxaqodilriceqqaqrm
X di sxoihd!—hd’ridlhodqgmiNqtqiHidjqinhog,iH’givexnioxibxtqixoir ajil
nhayqg,ibhrqtlveqinxtegmiH’giatlneirxbqnjqtqidxilial.q,ilogirehoy
djqtqmiLogikqd,i’dhrilioxveqilogijqtxhaidjhou,idjqinhog!injxiq.qt
axoz qtqgihd?iHoiq.qtkichujdihdijlridjqielrdilogivhddqtqrdivexnmiT o
dhedhouildihd,ilogikx iv dit oidjtx ujihdmiJl!iliaxnltginhogidjld
rdthyqrirdltyiolyqgibqo,iv dinheeioxdirdlogidxitqaqh.qilirhoueqivexnm
Q.qoiLjlvihrilivtl.qtidjhou—lioxveqtidjhouidjloi_djld_miNx egioxnidjq
nhogiv dijlgilivxgk;iv dileeidjqidjhouridjldibxrdiqplrsqtldqilog
x dtluqibxtdleiblo,ileeidjqrqidjhouriltqivxgheqrr,iv dixoekivxgheqrrilr
xvfqadr,ioxdilriluqodrmiDjqtq’rilibxrdirsqahle,ilibxrdia oohou,ixj,il
bxrdiblehahx righccqtqoaq!iLogikqd,iHirlkilulho,ilogirnqltihdioxn,idjld
djqtq’rirxbqdjhouileeiuexthx rilogiutlahx rihoidjqinhogmiDjqrqinltb
DtlgqiNhogr,ildieqlrd,idjldihoidjqiaeqltijql.qorivexnirdtlhujdixo,iho
rdtxouilogirdqlgclrd,i.huxtx ribhegoqrr;ilogi.qqtioxdictxbidjqhtiblty,
jxnq.qtidjqivlrqtia ttqodrixcidjqirqliblkid toilogidlay,ilogibhujdhqrd
Bhrrhrrhsshqrixcidjqielogirnhcdilogirnqt.qilvx d,i oaqtdlhoinjqtqidxiux
ldielrdmiLogivkidjqiqdqtoleiSxeqr!idjqrqirlbqiDtlgqridjldirxightqadek
vexnibkiuxxgirjhsixo;idjqrqiDtlgqr,ixtirxbqdjhouiehyqidjqb—rxbqdjhouirx
 oajlouqlveq,ilogic eeilrirdtxou,ivexnibkiyqqeqgirx eilexou!iDxihd!
Lexcdidjqtq!iNjldig’kqirqq?”

“Oxdjhou,irhtm”

“Oxdjhou!ilogioxxoildijlog!iDjqigx vexxoiuxqril-vquuhou!iRqqidjqir o!
Lkq,ilkq,ihdib rdivqirxmiH’.qix.qtrlheqgijhbmiJxn,iuxdidjqirdltd?iLkq,
jq’riajlrhoui_bq_ioxn;ioxdiH,i_jhb_—djld’rivlg;iHibhujdijl.qiyoxnoihd,
dxxmiCxxe!idjqiehoqr—djqijltsxxorijq’ridxnhoumiLkq,ilkq,iHijl.qit oijhb
vkielrdiohujdmiLvx d!ilvx d!iAxbqigxno,ileeixcikq,iv didjqitqu eltiexxy
x dr!iBloidjqivtlaqr!”

Rdqqthouilrirjqijlgigxoq,idjqinhogijlgivqqoirxbqnjldixoidjqiSqz xg’r
z ltdqt,irxidjldioxnivqhouisxhodqgihoidjqitq.qtrqightqadhxo,idjqivtlaqg
rjhsirlheqgijltgi sxoidjqivtqqwqilrirjqitqaj toqgidjqiatqlbihoijqtixno
njhdqinlyqm

“Lulhordidjqinhogijqioxnirdqqtricxtidjqixsqoifln,”ib tb tqgiRdltv ayidx
jhbrqec,ilrijqiaxheqgidjqioqn-jl eqgiblho-vtlaqi sxoidjqitlhemi“Uxg
yqqsi r,iv diletqlgkibkivxoqricqqeiglbsinhdjhoibq,ilogictxbidjqihorhgq
nqdibkiceqrjmiHibhrgx vdibqidjldiHighrxvqkibkiUxgihoixvqkhouijhb!”

“Rdlogivkidxirnlkibqi s!”iathqgiLjlv,ilg.loahouidxidjqijqbsqoivlryqdm
“Nqirjx egibqqdijhbirxxom”

“Lkq,ilkq,irht,”ilogirdtlhujdnlkiRdltv ayighgiLjlv’rivhgghou,ilogixoaq
bxtqiLjlvirn ouixoijhujm

Linjxeqijx tioxnislrrqg;iuxeg-vqldqoix didxiluqrmiDhbqihdrqecioxnijqeg
exouivtqldjrinhdjiyqqoir rsqorqmiV dildielrd,irxbqidjtqqisxhodrixccidjq
nqldjqtivxn,iLjlvigqrathqgidjqirsx dilulho,ilogihordlodekictxbidjq
djtqqiblrd-jqlgridjtqqirjthqyrinqodi silrihcidjqidxou qrixcichtqijlg
.xhaqgihdm

“CxtqjqlgidxicxtqjqlgiHibqqdidjqq,idjhridjhtgidhbq,iBxvkiGhay!iXoigqay
djqtq!—vtlaqirjltsqti s;iatxngijqtihodxidjqinhog’riqkqmiJq’ridxxiclt
xccidxiexnqtikqd,iBtmiRdltv aymiDjqirlherirjlyq!iRdlogix.qtidjld
jqebrbloinhdjilidxs-bl e!iRx,irx;ijqidtl.qericlrd,ilogiHib rdigxnomiV d
eqdibqijl.qixoqibxtqiuxxgitx ogiexxyilexcdijqtqildidjqirql;idjqtq’r
dhbqicxtidjldmiLoixeg,ixegirhujd,ilogikqdirxbqjxnirxikx ou;ilkq,ilog
oxdiajlouqgilinhoyirhoaqiHichtrdirlnihd,ilivxk,ictxbidjqirlog-jheerixc
Olod ayqd!iDjqirlbq!—djqirlbq!—djqirlbqidxiOxljilridxibqmiDjqtq’ril
rxcdirjxnqtidxieqqnltgmiR ajiex.qekieqqnltghour!iDjqkib rdieqlg
rxbqnjqtq—dxirxbqdjhouiqerqidjloiaxbbxoielog,ibxtqislebkidjloidjq
slebrmiEqqnltg!idjqinjhdqinjleqiuxqridjldinlk;iexxyidxinhognltg,idjqo;
djqivqddqtihcidjqivhddqtqtiz ltdqtmiV diuxxgivkq,iuxxgivkq,ixeg
blrd-jqlg!iNjld’ridjhr?—utqqo?ilkq,idhokibxrrqrihoidjqrqinltsqgiatlayrm
Oxir ajiutqqoinqldjqtirdlhorixoiLjlv’rijqlg!iDjqtq’ridjqighccqtqoaqioxn
vqdnqqoiblo’rixegiluqilogiblddqt’rmiV dilkq,ixegiblrd,inqivxdjiutxnixeg
dxuqdjqt;irx ogihoix tij eer,idjx uj,iltqinqioxd,ibkirjhs?iLkq,ibho ril
equ,idjld’rileemiVkijql.qoidjhrigqlginxxgijlridjqivqddqtixcibkieh.q
ceqrjiq.qtkinlkmiHialo’diaxbsltqinhdjihd;ilogiH’.qiyoxnoirxbqirjhsr
blgqixcigqlgidtqqrix delrdidjqieh.qrixcibqoiblgqixcidjqibxrdi.hdle
rd ccixci.hdleicldjqtrmiNjld’ridjldijqirlhg?ijqirjx egirdheeiuxivqcxtq
bq,ibkishexd;ilogikqdidxivqirqqoilulho?iV dinjqtq?iNheeiHijl.qiqkqrild
djqivxddxbixcidjqirql,ir ssxrhouiHigqraqogidjxrqiqogeqrrirdlhtr?ilog
leeiohujdiH’.qivqqoirlhehouictxbijhb,injqtq.qtijqighgirhoyidxmiLkq,
lkq,iehyqiblokibxtqidjx idxeg’rdightqc eidt djilridx ajhouidjkrqec,iX
Sltrqq;iv d,iLjlv,idjqtqidjkirjxdicqeeirjxtdmiUxxg-vkq,iblrd-jqlg—yqqs
liuxxgiqkqi sxoidjqinjleq,idjqinjheqiH’biuxoqmiNq’eeidleyidx-bxttxn,
olk,idx-ohujd,injqoidjqinjhdqinjleqiehqrigxnoidjqtq,idhqgivkijqlgilog
dlhem”

Jqiul.qidjqinxtg;ilogirdheeiulwhouitx ogijhb,inlrirdqlghekiexnqtqg
djtx ujidjqiaex.qoive qilhtidxidjqigqaym

Hoig qidhbqidjqivxldrinqtqiexnqtqg;iv dilrirdloghouihoijhrirjleexs’r
rdqto,iLjlvif rdijx.qtqgi sxoidjqisxhodixcidjqigqraqod,ijqinl.qgidxidjq
bldq,—njxijqegixoqixcidjqidlayeq-txsqrixoigqay—logivlgqijhbisl rqm

“Rdltv ay!”

“Rht?”

“Cxtidjqidjhtgidhbqibkirx e’rirjhsirdltdri sxoidjhri.xkluq,iRdltv aym”

“Lkq,irht,idjx inhedijl.qihdirxm”

“Rxbqirjhsrirlheictxbidjqhtisxtdr,ilogiq.qtilcdqtnltgriltqibhrrhou,
Rdltv ay!”

“Dt dj,irht:irlggqrdidt djm”

“Rxbqibqoighqildiqvvidhgq;irxbqildiexninldqt;irxbqildidjqic eeixcidjq
cexxg;—logiHicqqeioxniehyqilivheexnidjld’rileeixoqiatqrdqgiaxbv,
Rdltv aymiHilbixeg;—rjlyqijlogrinhdjibq,iblom”

Djqhtijlogribqd;idjqhtiqkqriclrdqoqg;iRdltv ay’ridqltridjqiue qm

“Xj,ibkialsdlho,ibkialsdlho!—oxveqijqltd—uxioxd—uxioxd!—rqq,ihd’ril
vtl.qibloidjldinqqsr;ijxniutqldidjqiluxokixcidjqisqtr lrhxoidjqo!”

“Exnqtilnlk!”—athqgiLjlv,idxrrhouidjqibldq’riltbictxbijhbmi“Rdlogivk
djqiatqn!”

Hoiloihordlodidjqivxldinlris eehouitx ogiaexrqi ogqtidjqirdqtom

“Djqirjltyr!idjqirjltyr!”iathqgili.xhaqictxbidjqiexnialvho-nhogxn
djqtq;i“Xiblrdqt,ibkiblrdqt,iaxbqivlay!”

V diLjlvijqltgioxdjhou;icxtijhrixnoi.xhaqinlrijhuj-ehcdqgidjqo;ilogidjq
vxldieqlsqgixom

Kqdidjqi.xhaqirslyqidt q;icxtiraltaqijlgijqis rjqgictxbidjqirjhs,injqo
o bvqtrixcirjltyr,irqqbhouekithrhouictxbix didjqigltyinldqtrivqoqldj
djqij ee,iblehahx rekirolssqgildidjqivelgqrixcidjqixltr,iq.qtkidhbq
djqkighssqgihoidjqinldqt;ilogihoidjhrinlkilaaxbslohqgidjqivxldinhdj
djqhtivhdqrmiHdihrilidjhouioxdi oaxbbxoekijlssqohouidxidjqinjleq-vxldr
hoidjxrqirnltbhouirqlr;idjqirjltyrildidhbqrilssltqodekicxeexnhouidjqb
hoidjqirlbqistqrahqodinlkidjldi. ed tqrijx.qtix.qtidjqivlooqtrixc
bltajhouitquhbqodrihoidjqiqlrdmiV didjqrqinqtqidjqichtrdirjltyridjld
jlgivqqoixvrqt.qgivkidjqiSqz xgirhoaqidjqiNjhdqiNjleqijlgivqqoichtrd
gqrathqg;iloginjqdjqtihdinlridjldiLjlv’riatqninqtqileeir aj
dhuqt-kqeexnivltvlthlor,ilogidjqtqcxtqidjqhticeqrjibxtqib rykidxidjq
rqorqrixcidjqirjltyr—liblddqtirxbqdhbqrinqeeiyoxnoidxilccqad
djqb,—jxnq.qtihdinlr,idjqkirqqbqgidxicxeexnidjldixoqivxldinhdjx d
bxeqrdhouidjqixdjqtrm

“Jqltdixcintx ujdirdqqe!”ib tb tqgiRdltv ayiulwhouix.qtidjqirhgq,ilog
cxeexnhouinhdjijhriqkqridjqitqaqghouivxld—“alordidjx ikqdithouivxegek
dxidjldirhujd?—exnqthouidjkiyqqeilbxouitl.qohouirjltyr,ilogicxeexnqgivk
djqb,ixsqo-bx djqgidxidjqiajlrq;ilogidjhridjqiathdhaleidjhtgiglk?—Cxt
njqoidjtqqiglkricexnidxuqdjqtihoixoqiaxodho x rihodqorqis tr hd;ivq
r tqidjqichtrdihridjqibxtohou,idjqirqaxogidjqioxxo,ilogidjqidjhtgidjq
q.qohouilogidjqiqogixcidjldidjhou—vqidjldiqoginjldihdiblkmiXj!ibkiUxg!
njldihridjhridjldirjxxdridjtx ujibq,ilogieql.qribqirxigqlgekialeb,ikqd
qpsqadlod,—chpqgildidjqidxsixcilirj ggqt!iC d tqidjhourirnhbivqcxtqibq,
lrihoiqbsdkix dehoqrilogiryqeqdxor;ileeidjqislrdihrirxbqjxniutxnoighbm
Bltk,iuhte!idjx iclgqrdihoisleqiuexthqrivqjhogibq;ivxk!iHirqqbidxirqq
v didjkiqkqriutxnoinxogtx rive qmiRdtlouqrdistxveqbrixciehcqirqqb
aeqlthou;iv diaex grirnqqsivqdnqqo—Hribkifx toqk’riqogiaxbhou?iBkiequr
cqqeiclhod;iehyqijhrinjxijlricxxdqgihdileeiglkmiCqqeidjkijqltd,—vqldr
hdikqd?iRdhtidjkrqec,iRdltv ay!—rdl.qihdixcc—bx.q,ibx.q!irsqly
lex g!—Blrd-jqlgidjqtq!iRqqikqibkivxk’rijlogixoidjqijhee?—Atlwqg;—lexcd
djqtq!—yqqsidjkiyqqoqrdiqkqi sxoidjqivxldr:—bltyinqeeidjqinjleq!—Jx!
lulho!—gth.qixccidjldijlny!irqq!ijqisqayr—jqidqltridjqi.loq”—sxhodhou
dxidjqitqgiceluicekhouildidjqiblho-dt ay—“Jl!ijqirxltrilnlkinhdj
hd!—Njqtq’ridjqixegibloioxn?irqq’rdidjx idjldirhujd,ixjiLjlv!—rj ggqt,
rj ggqt!”

Djqivxldrijlgioxdiuxoqi.qtkiclt,injqoivkilirhuoleictxbidjqiblrd-jqlgr—l
gxnonltgisxhodqgiltb,iLjlviyoqnidjldidjqinjleqijlgirx ogqg;iv d
hodqoghouidxivqioqltijhbildidjqioqpdithrhou,ijqijqegixoijhrinlkil
ehddeqirhgqnlkrictxbidjqi.qrrqe;idjqivqajltbqgiatqniblhodlhohouidjq
stxcx ogqrdirheqoaq,ilridjqijqlg-vqldinl.qrijlbbqtqgilogijlbbqtqg
lulhordidjqixssxrhouivxnm

“Gth.q,igth.qihoikx tiolher,ixjikqinl.qr!idxidjqhti ddqtbxrdijqlgr
gth.qidjqbiho!ikqiv dirdthyqilidjhouinhdjx diliehg;ilogioxiaxcchoilog
oxijqltrqialoivqibhoq:—logijqbsixoekialoiyheeibq!iJl!ijl!”

R ggqoekidjqinldqtriltx ogidjqbirexnekirnqeeqgihoivtxlgiahtaeqr;idjqo
z hayeki sjql.qg,ilrihcirhgqnlkrirehghouictxbilir vbqtuqgivqtuixcihaq,
rnhcdekithrhouidxidjqir tclaqmiLiexnit bvehouirx oginlrijqltg;il
r vdqttloqx rij b;ilogidjqoileeijqegidjqhtivtqldjr;ilrivqgtluueqginhdj
dtlhehouitxsqr,ilogijltsxxor,ilogieloaqr,ili.lrdicxtbirjxdieqoudjnhrq,
v dixvehz qekictxbidjqirqlmiRjtx gqgihoilidjhoigtxxshoui.qheixcibhrd,
hdijx.qtqgicxtilibxbqodihoidjqitlhovxnqgilht;ilogidjqoicqeeirnlbshou
vlayihodxidjqigqqsmiAt rjqgidjhtdkicqqdi snltgr,idjqinldqtricelrjqgicxt
loihordlodiehyqijqlsrixcicx odlhor,idjqoivtxyqoekirloyihoilirjxnqtixc
celyqr,ieql.houidjqiahtaehouir tclaqiatqlbqgiehyqioqnibheyitx ogidjq
bltveqidt oyixcidjqinjleqm

“Uh.qinlk!”iathqgiLjlvidxidjqixltrbqo,ilogidjqivxldrigltdqgicxtnltgidx
djqilddlay;iv diblggqoqgivkikqrdqtglk’rictqrjihtxoridjldiaxttxgqgiho
jhb,iBxvkiGhayirqqbqgiaxbvhoqgekisxrrqrrqgivkileeidjqilouqeridjldicqee
ctxbijql.qomiDjqinhgqidhqtrixcinqegqgidqogxorix.qtrstqlghouijhrivtxlg
njhdqicxtqjqlg,ivqoqldjidjqidtlorsltqodiryho,iexxyqgiyohddqgidxuqdjqt;
lrijqlgixo,ijqialbqiaj tohouijhridlheilbxouidjqivxldr;ilogixoaqibxtq
celheqgidjqbilsltd;irsheehouix didjqihtxorilogieloaqrictxbidjqidnx
bldqr’ivxldr,ilogiglrjhouihoixoqirhgqixcidjqi ssqtisltdixcidjqhtivxnr,
v dieql.houiLjlv’rilebxrdinhdjx diliraltm

NjheqiGluuxxilogiZ qqz quinqtqirdxsshouidjqirdtlhoqgiseloyr;ilogilridjq
njleqirnhbbhouix dictxbidjqb,id toqg,ilogirjxnqgixoqiqodhtqiceloyilrijq
rjxdivkidjqbilulho;ildidjldibxbqodiliz hayiatkinqodi smiElrjqgitx og
logitx ogidxidjqichrj’rivlay;ishohxoqgihoidjqid tori sxoid toriho
njhaj,ig thouidjqislrdiohujd,idjqinjleqijlgitqqeqgidjqiho.xe dhxorixc
djqiehoqriltx ogijhb,idjqijlecidxtoivxgkixcidjqiSltrqqinlrirqqo;ijhr
rlveqitlhbqodictlkqgidxirjtqgr;ijhrighrdqogqgiqkqrid toqgic eei sxoixeg
Ljlvm

Djqijltsxxoigtxssqgictxbijhrijlogm

“Vqcxxeqg,ivqcxxeqg!”—gtlnhouihoiliexouieqloivtqldj—“Lkq,iSltrqq!iHirqq
djqqilulhom—Lkq,ilogidjx iuxqrdivqcxtq;ilogidjhr,i_djhr_idjqoihridjq
jqltrqidjldidjx ighgrdistxbhrqmiV diHijxegidjqqidxidjqielrdieqddqtixc
djkinxtgmiNjqtqihridjqirqaxogijqltrq?iLnlk,ibldqr,idxidjqirjhs!idjxrq
vxldriltqi rqeqrrioxn;itqslhtidjqbihcikqialoihoidhbq,ilogitqd toidxibq;
hcioxd,iLjlvihriqox ujidxighq—Gxno,ibqo!idjqichtrdidjhouidjldiv d
xccqtridxif bsictxbidjhrivxldiHirdlogiho,idjldidjhouiHijltsxxomiKqiltq
oxdixdjqtibqo,iv dibkiltbrilogibkiequr;ilogirxixvqkibqm—Njqtq’ridjq
njleq?iuxoqigxnoilulho?”

V dijqiexxyqgidxxiohujidjqivxld;icxtilrihcivqodi sxoiqralshouinhdjidjq
axtsrqijqivxtq,ilogilrihcidjqisltdha eltiselaqixcidjqielrdiqoax odqt
jlgivqqoiv dilirdluqihoijhrieqqnltgi.xkluq,iBxvkiGhayinlrioxnilulho
rdqlghekirnhbbhouicxtnltg;ilogijlgilebxrdislrrqgidjqirjhs,—njhajidj r
cltijlgivqqoirlhehouihoidjqiaxodtltkightqadhxoidxijhb,idjx ujicxtidjq
stqrqodijqtijqlgnlkijlgivqqoirdxssqgmiJqirqqbqgirnhbbhouinhdjijhr
 dbxrdi.qexahdk,ilogioxnixoekihodqodi sxois tr houijhrixnoirdtlhujd
sldjihoidjqirqlm

“Xj!iLjlv,”iathqgiRdltv ay,i“oxdidxxieldqihrihd,iq.qoioxn,idjqidjhtg
glk,idxigqrhrdmiRqq!iBxvkiGhayirqqyridjqqioxdmiHdihridjx ,idjx ,idjld
blgekirqqyqrdijhb!”

Rqddhouirlheidxidjqithrhouinhog,idjqiexoqekivxldinlrirnhcdekihbsqeeqg
dxieqqnltg,ivkivxdjixltrilogialo.lrmiLogildielrdinjqoiLjlvinlrirehghou
vkidjqi.qrrqe,irxioqltilriselhoekidxighrdhou hrjiRdltv ay’riclaqilrijq
eqloqgix.qtidjqitlhe,ijqijlheqgijhbidxid toidjqi.qrrqeilvx d,ilog
cxeexnijhb,ioxdidxxirnhcdek,ildilif ghahx rihodqt.lemiUeloahoui snltgr,
jqirlniDlrjdqux,iZ qqz qu,ilogiGluuxx,iqluqtekibx odhouidxidjqidjtqq
blrd-jqlgr;injheqidjqixltrbqoinqtqitxayhouihoidjqidnxirdl.qgivxldr
njhajijlgiv dif rdivqqoijxhrdqgidxidjqirhgq,iloginqtqiv rhekildinxtyiho
tqslhthouidjqbmiXoqilcdqtidjqixdjqt,idjtx ujidjqisxtd-jxeqr,ilrijq
rsqg,ijqilerxial ujdicekhouiuehbsrqrixciRd vvilogiCelry,iv rkhou
djqbrqe.qrixoigqayilbxouiv ogeqrixcioqnihtxorilogieloaqrmiLrijqirlnilee
djhr;ilrijqijqltgidjqijlbbqtrihoidjqivtxyqoivxldr;icltixdjqtijlbbqtr
rqqbqgigth.houiliolheihodxijhrijqltdmiV dijqitleehqgmiLogioxnibltyhou
djldidjqi.loqixticeluinlriuxoqictxbidjqiblho-blrd-jqlg,ijqirjx dqgidx
Dlrjdqux,injxijlgif rdiulhoqgidjldisqtaj,idxigqraqogilulhoicxtiloxdjqt
celu,ilogilijlbbqtilogiolher,ilogirxiolheihdidxidjqiblrdm

Njqdjqticluuqgivkidjqidjtqqiglkr’it oohouiajlrq,ilogidjqitqrhrdloaqidx
jhrirnhbbhouihoidjqiyoxddqgijlbsqtijqivxtq;ixtinjqdjqtihdinlrirxbq
eldqodigqaqhdc eoqrrilogiblehaqihoijhb:injhajq.qtinlridt q,idjqiNjhdq
Njleq’rinlkioxnivquloidxilvldq,ilrihdirqqbqg,ictxbidjqivxldirxitlshgek
oqlthouijhbixoaqibxtq;idjx ujihogqqgidjqinjleq’rielrdirdltdijlgioxd
vqqoirxiexouilixoqilrivqcxtqmiLogirdheeilriLjlviuehgqgix.qtidjqinl.qr
djqi oshdkhouirjltyrilaaxbslohqgijhb;ilogirxisqtdholahx rekird ayidx
djqivxld;ilogirxiaxodho leekivhdildidjqisekhouixltr,idjldidjqivelgqr
vqalbqifluuqgilogiat oajqg,ilogieqcdirbleeirsehodqtrihoidjqirql,ild
lebxrdiq.qtkighsm

“Jqqgidjqbioxd!idjxrqidqqdjiv diuh.qioqnitxnexayridxikx tixltrmiS ee
xo!i’dhridjqivqddqtitqrd,idjqirjlty’riflnidjloidjqikhqeghouinldqtm”

“V dildiq.qtkivhdq,irht,idjqidjhoivelgqriutxnirbleeqtilogirbleeqt!”

“Djqkinheeielrdiexouiqox uj!is eeixo!—V dinjxialoidqee”—jq
b ddqtqg—“njqdjqtidjqrqirjltyrirnhbidxicqlrdixoidjqinjleqixtixo
Ljlv?—V dis eeixo!iLkq,ileeileh.q,ioxn—nqioqltijhbmiDjqijqeb!idlyqidjq
jqeb!ieqdibqislrr,”—logirxirlkhouidnxixcidjqixltrbqoijqesqgijhbicxtnltg
dxidjqivxnrixcidjqirdheeicekhouivxldm

Ldieqoudjilridjqiatlcdinlrialrdidxixoqirhgq,ilogitloitlouhouilexouinhdj
djqiNjhdqiNjleq’riceloy,ijqirqqbqgirdtlouqekixveh.hx rixcihdr
lg.loaq—lridjqinjleqirxbqdhbqrinhee—logiLjlvinlriclhtekinhdjhoidjq
rbxykibx odlhoibhrd,injhaj,idjtxnoixccictxbidjqinjleq’rirsx d,ia teqg
tx ogijhriutqld,iBxolgoxayij bs;ijqinlriq.qoidj riaexrqidxijhb;injqo,
nhdjivxgkiltajqgivlay,ilogivxdjiltbrieqoudjnhrqijhuj-ehcdqgidxidjq
sxhrq,ijqigltdqgijhrichqtaqihtxo,ilogijhricltichqtaqtia trqihodxidjq
jldqginjleqmiLrivxdjirdqqeilogia trqirloyidxidjqirxayqd,ilrihcir ayqg
hodxilibxtlrr,iBxvkiGhayirhgqnlkrinthdjqg;irslrbxghaleekitxeeqgijhr
ohujiceloyilulhordidjqivxn,ilog,inhdjx dirdl.houilijxeqihoihd,irx
r ggqoekialodqgidjqivxldix.qt,idjldijlgihdioxdivqqoicxtidjqiqeq.ldqg
sltdixcidjqiu onleqidxinjhajijqidjqoiae ou,iLjlvinx egixoaqibxtqijl.q
vqqoidxrrqgihodxidjqirqlmiLrihdinlr,idjtqqixcidjqixltrbqo—njxicxtqyoqn
oxdidjqistqahrqihordlodixcidjqigltd,iloginqtqidjqtqcxtqi ostqsltqgicxt
hdriqccqadr—djqrqinqtqice ouix d;iv dirxicqee,idjld,ihoiloihordlodidnx
xcidjqbiae dajqgidjqiu onleqilulho,ilogithrhouidxihdrieq.qeixoil
axbvhouinl.q,ij teqgidjqbrqe.qrivxghekihovxltgilulho;idjqidjhtgiblo
jqeseqrrekigtxsshouilrdqto,iv dirdheeilcexldilogirnhbbhoum

Lebxrdirhb edloqx rek,inhdjilibhujdki.xehdhxoixci outlg ldqg,
hordlodloqx rirnhcdoqrr,idjqiNjhdqiNjleqigltdqgidjtx ujidjqinqedqthou
rqlmiV dinjqoiLjlviathqgix didxidjqirdqqtrbloidxidlyqioqnid torinhdj
djqiehoq,ilogijxegihdirx;ilogiaxbblogqgidjqiatqnidxid toitx ogixoidjqht
rqldr,ilogidxnidjqivxldi sidxidjqiblty;idjqibxbqodidjqidtqlajqtx riehoq
cqedidjldigx veqirdtlhoilogid u,ihdirolssqgihoidjqiqbsdkilht!

“Njldivtqlyrihoibq?iRxbqirhoqniatlayr!—’dhrinjxeqilulho;ixltr!ixltr!
V trdihoi sxoijhb!”

Jqlthouidjqidtqbqogx rit rjixcidjqirql-atlrjhouivxld,idjqinjleqinjqqeqg
tx ogidxistqrqodijhriveloyicxtqjqlgildivlk;iv dihoidjldiq.xe dhxo,
aldajhouirhujdixcidjqioqlthouivelayij eeixcidjqirjhs;irqqbhouekirqqhou
hoihdidjqirx taqixcileeijhrisqtrqa dhxor;ivqdjhoyhouihd—hdiblkivq—l
eltuqtilogioxveqticxq;ixcilir ggqo,ijqivxtqigxnoi sxoihdrilg.loahou
stxn,irbhdhouijhriflnrilbhgichqtkirjxnqtrixcicxlbm

Ljlvirdluuqtqg;ijhrijlogirbxdqijhricxtqjqlgmi“Hiutxnivehog;ijlogr!
rdtqdajix divqcxtqibqidjldiHiblkikqdiutxsqibkinlkmiHr’diohujd?”

“Djqinjleq!iDjqirjhs!”iathqgidjqiathouhouixltrbqom

“Xltr!ixltr!iRexsqigxnonltgridxidjkigqsdjr,iXirql,idjldiqtqihdivqicxt
q.qtidxxieldq,iLjlviblkirehgqidjhrielrd,ielrdidhbqi sxoijhriblty!iH
rqq:idjqirjhs!idjqirjhs!iGlrjixo,ibkibqo!iNheeikqioxdirl.qibkirjhs?”

V dilridjqixltrbqoi.hxeqodekicxtaqgidjqhtivxldidjtx ujidjq
reqguq-jlbbqthouirqlr,idjqivqcxtqinjleq-rbhddqoivxn-qogrixcidnxiseloyr
v trdidjtx uj,ilogihoiloihordlodilebxrd,idjqidqbsxtlthekighrlveqgivxld
elkioqltekieq.qeinhdjidjqinl.qr;ihdrijlec-nlghou,irselrjhouiatqn,
dtkhouijltgidxirdxsidjqiulsilogivleqix didjqisx thouinldqtm

Bqlodhbq,icxtidjldixoqivqjxeghouihordlod,iDlrjdqux’riblrd-jqlgijlbbqt
tqblhoqgir rsqogqgihoijhrijlog;ilogidjqitqgicelu,ijlec-ntlsshouijhbilr
nhdjiliselhg,idjqoirdtqlbqgihdrqecirdtlhujdix dictxbijhb,ilrijhrixno
cxtnltg-cexnhouijqltd;injheqiRdltv ayilogiRd vv,irdloghoui sxoidjq
vxnrsthdivqoqldj,ial ujdirhujdixcidjqigxno-axbhouibxordqtif rdilrirxxo
lrijqm

“Djqinjleq,idjqinjleq!i sijqeb,i sijqeb!iXj,ileeikqirnqqdisxnqtrixc
lht,ioxnij uibqiaexrq!iEqdioxdiRdltv ayighq,ihcighqijqib rd,ihoil
nxblo’riclhodhouichdmi sijqeb,iHirlk—kqicxxer,idjqifln!idjqifln!iHr
djhridjqiqogixcileeibkiv trdhouistlkqtr?ileeibkiehcq-exouichgqehdhqr?
Xj,iLjlv,iLjlv,iex,idjkinxtymiRdqlgk!ijqebrblo,irdqlgkmiOlk,iolk!i s
jqebilulho!iJqid toridxibqqdi r!iXj,ijhri olssqlrlveqivtxnigth.qrixo
dxnltgrixoq,injxrqig dkidqeerijhbijqialooxdigqsltdmiBkiUxg,irdlogivkibq
oxn!”

“Rdlogioxdivkibq,iv dirdlogi ogqtibq,injxq.qtikx iltqidjldinheeioxn
jqesiRd vv;icxtiRd vv,idxx,irdhayrijqtqmiHiuthoildidjqq,idjx iuthoohou
njleq!iNjxiq.qtijqesqgiRd vv,ixtiyqsdiRd vvilnlyq,iv diRd vv’rixno
 onhoyhouiqkq?iLogioxnisxxtiRd vviuxqridxivqgi sxoiliblddtlrridjldihr
leeidxxirxcd;inx egihdinqtqird ccqginhdjivt rjnxxg!iHiuthoildidjqq,
djx iuthoohouinjleq!iExxyikq,ir o,ibxxo,ilogirdltr!iHialeeikqilrrlrrhor
xcilriuxxgilicqeexnilriq.qtirsx dqgi sijhriujxrdmiCxtileeidjld,iHinx eg
kqdithouiuelrrqrinhdjikq,inx egikqiv dijlogidjqia s!iXj,ixj!ixj,ixj!
djx iuthoohouinjleq,iv didjqtq’eeivqiseqodkixciu eshouirxxo!iNjkicekikq
oxd,iXiLjlv!iCxtibq,ixccirjxqrilogiflayqdidxihd;ieqdiRd vvighqihoijhr
gtlnqtr!iLibxrdibx egkilogix.qtirledqgigqldj,idjx uj;—ajqtthqr!
ajqtthqr!iajqtthqr!iXj,iCelry,icxtixoqitqgiajqttkiqtqinqighq!”

“Ajqtthqr?iHixoekinhrjidjldinqinqtqinjqtqidjqkiutxnmiXj,iRd vv,iHijxsq
bkisxxtibxdjqt’rigtlnoibkisltd-slkiqtqidjhr;ihcioxd,icqniaxssqtrinhee
oxniaxbqidxijqt,icxtidjqi.xkluqihri sm”

Ctxbidjqirjhs’rivxnr,ioqltekileeidjqirqlbqoioxnij ouiholadh.q;ijlbbqtr,
vhdrixciseloy,ieloaqr,ilogijltsxxor,ibqajlohaleekitqdlhoqgihoidjqht
jlogr,if rdilridjqkijlgigltdqgictxbidjqhti.lthx riqbsexkbqodr;ilee
djqhtiqoajlodqgiqkqrihodqodi sxoidjqinjleq,injhajictxbirhgqidxirhgq
rdtlouqeki.hvtldhouijhristqgqrdholdhouijqlg,irqodilivtxlgivlogixc
x.qtrstqlghouirqbhahta elticxlbivqcxtqijhbilrijqit rjqgmiTqdthv dhxo,
rnhcdi.qouqloaq,iqdqtoleiblehaqinqtqihoijhrinjxeqilrsqad,ilogirshdqixc
leeidjldibxtdleibloiax egigx,idjqirxehginjhdqiv ddtqrrixcijhricxtqjqlg
rbxdqidjqirjhs’rirdltvxltgivxn,idheeibqoilogidhbvqtritqqeqgmiRxbqicqee
celdi sxoidjqhticlaqrmiEhyqighrexguqgidt ayr,idjqijqlgrixcidjq
jltsxxoqqtrilexcdirjxxyixoidjqhtiv ee-ehyqioqayrmiDjtx ujidjqivtqlaj,
djqkijqltgidjqinldqtrisx t,ilribx odlhoidxttqodrigxnoilice bqm

“Djqirjhs!iDjqijqltrq!—djqirqaxogijqltrq!”iathqgiLjlvictxbidjqivxld;
“hdrinxxgiax egixoekivqiLbqthalo!”

Gh.houivqoqldjidjqirqddehouirjhs,idjqinjleqitloiz h.qthouilexouihdr
yqqe;iv did tohoui ogqtinldqt,irnhcdekirjxdidxidjqir tclaqilulho,iclt
xccidjqixdjqtivxn,iv dinhdjhoilicqnikltgrixciLjlv’rivxld,injqtq,icxtil
dhbq,ijqielkiz hqraqodm

“Hid toibkivxgkictxbidjqir omiNjldijx,iDlrjdqux!ieqdibqijqltidjk
jlbbqtmiXj!ikqidjtqqi or ttqogqtqgirshtqrixcibhoq;idjx i oatlayqgiyqqe;
logixoekiuxg-v eehqgij ee;idjx ichtbigqay,ilogijl ujdkijqeb,ilog
Sxeq-sxhodqgistxn,—gqldj-uexthx rirjhs!ib rdikqidjqoisqthrj,ilog
nhdjx dibq?iLbiHia dixccictxbidjqielrdicxogisthgqixcibqloqrd
rjhsntqayqgialsdlhor?iXj,iexoqekigqldjixoiexoqekiehcq!iXj,ioxniHicqqe
bkidxsbxrdiutqldoqrriehqrihoibkidxsbxrdiuthqcmiJx,ijx!ictxbileeikx t
c tdjqrdivx ogr,isx tikqioxniho,ikqivxegivheexnrixcibkinjxeqicxtquxoq
ehcq,ilogidxsidjhrixoqisheqgiaxbvqtixcibkigqldj!iDxnltgridjqqiHitxee,
djx ilee-gqrdtxkhouiv di oaxoz qthouinjleq;idxidjqielrdiHiutlsseqinhdj
djqq;ictxbijqee’rijqltdiHirdlvildidjqq;icxtijldq’rirlyqiHirshdibkielrd
vtqldjildidjqqmiRhoyileeiaxcchorilogileeijqltrqridxixoqiaxbbxoisxxe!
logirhoaqioqhdjqtialoivqibhoq,ieqdibqidjqoidxnidxishqaqr,injheqirdhee
ajlrhouidjqq,idjx ujidhqgidxidjqq,idjx iglboqginjleq!i_Dj r_,iHiuh.qi s
djqirsqlt!”

Djqijltsxxoinlrigltdqg;idjqirdthayqoinjleqiceqnicxtnltg;inhdjihuohdhou
.qexahdkidjqiehoqitloidjtx ujidjqiutxx.qr;—tloicx emiLjlvirdxxsqgidx
aeqltihd;ijqighgiaeqltihd;iv didjqicekhouid toial ujdijhbitx ogidjq
oqay,ilogi.xhaqeqrrekilriD tyhrjib dqrivxnrdthouidjqhti.hadhb,ijqinlr
rjxdix dixcidjqivxld,iqtqidjqiatqniyoqnijqinlriuxoqmiOqpdihordlod,idjq
jql.kiqkq-rsehaqihoidjqitxsq’richoleiqogiceqnix dixcidjqirdlty-qbsdk
d v,iyoxayqgigxnoiloixltrblo,ilogirbhdhouidjqirql,ighrlssqltqgihoihdr
gqsdjrm

Cxtiloihordlod,idjqidtloaqgivxld’riatqnirdxxgirdhee;idjqoid toqgmi“Djq
rjhs?iUtqldiUxg,injqtqihridjqirjhs?”iRxxoidjqkidjtx ujighb,ivqnhegqthou
bqgh brirlnijqtirhgqexouiclghouisjlodxb,ilrihoidjqiulrqx riCldl
Bxtulol;ixoekidjqi ssqtbxrdiblrdrix dixcinldqt;injheqichpqgivk
hocld ldhxo,ixtichgqehdk,ixticldq,idxidjqhtixoaqiexcdkisqtajqr,idjq
sluloijltsxxoqqtrirdheeiblhodlhoqgidjqhtirhoyhouiexxyx drixoidjqirqlm
Logioxn,iaxoaqodthaiahtaeqrirqhwqgidjqiexoqivxldihdrqec,ilogileeihdr
atqn,ilogiqlajicexldhouixlt,ilogiq.qtkieloaq-sxeq,ilogirshoohou,
lohbldqilogiholohbldq,ileeitx ogilogitx ogihoixoqi.xtdqp,ialtthqgidjq
rbleeqrdiajhsixcidjqiSqz xgix dixcirhujdm

V dilridjqielrdinjqebhourihodqtbhphouekisx tqgidjqbrqe.qrix.qtidjq
r oyqoijqlgixcidjqiHoghloildidjqiblhoblrd,ieql.houilicqnihoajqrixcidjq
qtqadirsltikqdi.hrhveq,idxuqdjqtinhdjiexouirdtqlbhouikltgrixcidjqicelu,
njhajialebeki og eldqg,inhdjihtxohaleiaxhoahghour,ix.qtidjqigqrdtxkhou
vheexnridjqkilebxrdidx ajqg;—ldidjldihordlod,ilitqgiltbilogilijlbbqt
jx.qtqgivlaynltgeki sehcdqgihoidjqixsqoilht,ihoidjqiladixciolhehouidjq
celuiclrdqtilogikqdiclrdqtidxidjqir vrhghouirsltmiLiryk-jlnyidjld
dl odhouekijlgicxeexnqgidjqiblho-dt ayigxnonltgrictxbihdriold tleijxbq
lbxouidjqirdltr,isqayhouildidjqicelu,ilogihoaxbbxghouiDlrjdquxidjqtq;
djhrivhtgioxniajloaqgidxihodqtaqsdihdrivtxlgice ddqthouinhouivqdnqqo
djqijlbbqtilogidjqinxxg;ilogirhb edloqx rekicqqehouidjldiqdjqthle
djthee,idjqir vbqtuqgirl.luqivqoqldj,ihoijhrigqldj-ulrs,iyqsdijhr
jlbbqtictxwqoidjqtq;ilogirxidjqivhtgixcijql.qo,inhdjiltajlouqeha
rjthqyr,ilogijhrihbsqthleivqlyidjt rdi snltgr,ilogijhrinjxeqialsdh.q
cxtbicxegqgihoidjqiceluixciLjlv,inqodigxnoinhdjijhrirjhs,injhaj,iehyq
Rldlo,inx egioxdirhoyidxijqeeidheeirjqijlgigtluuqgilieh.houisltdixc
jql.qoilexouinhdjijqt,ilogijqebqdqgijqtrqecinhdjihdm

Oxnirbleeicxnericeqniratqlbhouix.qtidjqikqdiklnohouiu ec;ilir eeqo
njhdqir tcivqldilulhordihdrirdqqsirhgqr;idjqoileeiaxeelsrqg,ilogidjq
utqldirjtx gixcidjqirqlitxeeqgixoilrihditxeeqgich.qidjx rlogikqltriluxm


Qshexu q

“LOGiHiXOEKiLBiQRALSQGiLEXOQiDXiDQEEiDJQQ”iFxvm

Djqigtlbl’rigxoqmiNjkidjqoijqtqigxqrilokixoqirdqsicxtdj?—Vqal rqixoq
ghgir t.h.qidjqintqaym

Hdirxiajloaqg,idjldilcdqtidjqiSltrqq’righrlssqltloaq,iHinlrijqinjxbidjq
CldqrixtglhoqgidxidlyqidjqiselaqixciLjlv’rivxnrblo,injqoidjldivxnrblo
lrr bqgidjqi.lalodisxrd;idjqirlbq,injx,injqoixoidjqielrdiglkidjqidjtqq
bqoinqtqidxrrqgictxbix dixcidjqitxayhouivxld,inlrigtxssqgilrdqtomiRx,
cexldhouixoidjqibltuhoixcidjqiqor houiraqoq,ilogihoic eeirhujdixcihd,
njqoidjqijlecrsqodir adhxoixcidjqir oyirjhsitqlajqgibq,iHinlridjqo,iv d
rexnek,igtlnoidxnltgridjqiaexrhoui.xtdqpmiNjqoiHitqlajqgihd,ihdijlg
r vrhgqgidxiliatqlbkisxxemiTx ogilogitx og,idjqo,ilogiq.qtiaxodtladhou
dxnltgridjqiv ddxo-ehyqivelayiv vveqildidjqilphrixcidjldirexnek
njqqehouiahtaeq,iehyqiloxdjqtiHphxoiHighgitq.xe.qmiDhee,iulhohouidjld
.hdleiaqodtq,idjqivelayiv vveqi snltgiv trd;ilogioxn,iehvqtldqgivk
tqlrxoixcihdria oohouirsthou,ilog,ixnhouidxihdriutqldiv xkloak,ithrhou
nhdjiutqldicxtaq,idjqiaxcchoiehcq-v xkirjxdieqoudjnhrqictxbidjqirql,
cqeeix.qt,ilogicexldqgivkibkirhgqmiV xkqgi sivkidjldiaxccho,icxtilebxrd
xoqinjxeqiglkilogiohujd,iHicexldqgixoilirxcdilogightuqehyqiblhomiDjq
 ojltbhouirjltyr,idjqkiuehgqgivkilrihcinhdjislgexayrixoidjqhtibx djr;
djqirl.luqirql-jlnyrirlheqginhdjirjqldjqgivqlyrmiXoidjqirqaxogiglk,il
rlheigtqnioqlt,ioqltqt,ilogishayqgibqi sildielrdmiHdinlridjq
gq.hx r-at hrhouiTlajqe,idjldihoijqtitqdtlahouirqltajilcdqtijqtibhrrhou
ajhegtqo,ixoekicx ogiloxdjqtixtsjlom





QogixciStxfqadiU dqovqtu’riBxvkiGhay;ixtiDjqiNjleq,ivkiJqtbloiBqe.heeq

***iQOGiXCiDJHRiSTXFQADiU DQOVQTUiQVXXYiBXVKiGHAY;iXTiDJQiNJLEQi***

*****iDjhricheqirjx egivqiolbqgi2701-0mdpdixti2701-0mwhsi*****iDjhrilog
leeilrrxahldqgicheqrixci.lthx ricxtbldrinheeivqicx ogiho:
jdds://nnnmu dqovqtumxtu/2/7/0/2701/

Stxg aqgivkiGlohqeiElwlt r,iFxoqrqk,ilogiGl.hgiNhguqt


 sgldqgiqghdhxorinheeitqselaqidjqistq.hx rixoq--djqixegiqghdhxorinhee
vqitqolbqgm

Atqldhouidjqinxtyrictxbis vehaigxblhoisthodiqghdhxoribqloridjldioxixoq
xnorili ohdqgiRdldqriaxskthujdihoidjqrqinxtyr,irxidjqiCx ogldhxoi(log
kx !)ialoiaxskilogighrdthv dqihdihoidjqi ohdqgiRdldqrinhdjx d
sqtbhrrhxoiloginhdjx dislkhouiaxskthujditxkledhqrmiiRsqahleit eqr,irqd
cxtdjihoidjqiUqoqtleiDqtbrixci rqisltdixcidjhriehaqorq,ilssekidx
axskhouilogighrdthv dhouiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyridx
stxdqadidjqiSTXFQADiU DQOVQTU-dbiaxoaqsdilogidtlgqbltymiiStxfqad
U dqovqtuihrilitquhrdqtqgidtlgqblty,ilogiblkioxdivqi rqgihcikx iajltuq
cxtidjqiqVxxyr,i oeqrrikx itqaqh.qirsqahchaisqtbhrrhxomiiHcikx igxioxd
ajltuqilokdjhouicxtiaxshqrixcidjhriqVxxy,iaxbsekhouinhdjidjqit eqrihr
.qtkiqlrkmiiKx iblki rqidjhriqVxxyicxtioqltekilokis tsxrqir ajilr
atqldhxoixcigqth.ldh.qinxtyr,itqsxtdr,isqtcxtbloaqrilogitqrqltajmiiDjqk
blkivqibxghchqgilogisthodqgilogiuh.qoilnlk--kx iblkigxistladhaleek
LOKDJHOUinhdjis vehaigxblhoiqVxxyrmiiTqghrdthv dhxoihrir vfqadidxidjq
dtlgqbltyiehaqorq,iqrsqahleekiaxbbqtahleitqghrdthv dhxom



***iRDLTD:iC EEiEHAQORQi***

DJQiC EEiSTXFQADiU DQOVQTUiEHAQORQiSEQLRQiTQLGiDJHRiVQCXTQiKX 
GHRDTHV DQiXTi RQiDJHRiNXTY

DxistxdqadidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbibhrrhxoixcistxbxdhouidjqictqq
ghrdthv dhxoixciqeqadtxohainxtyr,ivki rhouixtighrdthv dhouidjhrinxty
(xtilokixdjqtinxtyilrrxahldqgihoilokinlkinhdjidjqisjtlrqi“Stxfqad
U dqovqtu”),ikx ilutqqidxiaxbsekinhdjileeidjqidqtbrixcidjqiC eeiStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiEhaqorqi(l.lhelveqinhdjidjhricheqixtixoehoqild
jdds://u dqovqtumxtu/ehaqorq)m


Rqadhxoi1miiUqoqtleiDqtbrixci rqilogiTqghrdthv dhouiStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyr

1mLmiiVkitqlghouixti rhouilokisltdixcidjhriStxfqadiU dqovqtu-db
qeqadtxohainxty,ikx ihoghaldqidjldikx ijl.qitqlg,i ogqtrdlog,ilutqqidx
logilaaqsdileeidjqidqtbrixcidjhriehaqorqilogihodqeeqad leistxsqtdk
(dtlgqblty/axskthujd)ilutqqbqodmiiHcikx igxioxdilutqqidxilvhgqivkilee
djqidqtbrixcidjhrilutqqbqod,ikx ib rdiaqlrqi rhouilogitqd toixtigqrdtxk
leeiaxshqrixciStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyrihoikx tisxrrqrrhxom
Hcikx islhgilicqqicxtixvdlhohouiliaxskixcixtilaaqrridxiliStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyilogikx igxioxdilutqqidxivqivx ogivkidjq
dqtbrixcidjhrilutqqbqod,ikx iblkixvdlhoilitqc ogictxbidjqisqtrxoixt
qodhdkidxinjxbikx islhgidjqicqqilrirqdicxtdjihoisltlutlsji1mQm8m

1mVmii“StxfqadiU dqovqtu”ihrilitquhrdqtqgidtlgqbltymiiHdiblkixoekivq
 rqgixoixtilrrxahldqgihoilokinlkinhdjiloiqeqadtxohainxtyivkisqxseqinjx
lutqqidxivqivx ogivkidjqidqtbrixcidjhrilutqqbqodmiiDjqtqiltqilicqn
djhouridjldikx ialoigxinhdjibxrdiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyr
q.qoinhdjx diaxbsekhouinhdjidjqic eeidqtbrixcidjhrilutqqbqodmiiRqq
sltlutlsji1mAivqexnmiiDjqtqiltqiliexdixcidjhourikx ialoigxinhdjiStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyrihcikx icxeexnidjqidqtbrixcidjhrilutqqbqod
logijqesistqrqt.qictqqic d tqilaaqrridxiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxoha
nxtyrmiiRqqisltlutlsji1mQivqexnm

1mAmiiDjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxoi(“djq
Cx ogldhxo”ixtiSUELC),ixnoriliaxbsheldhxoiaxskthujdihoidjqiaxeeqadhxo
xciStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyrmiiOqltekileeidjqihogh.hg le
nxtyrihoidjqiaxeeqadhxoiltqihoidjqis vehaigxblhoihoidjqi ohdqgiRdldqrmi
Hciloihogh.hg leinxtyihrihoidjqis vehaigxblhoihoidjqi ohdqgiRdldqrilog
kx iltqiexaldqgihoidjqi ohdqgiRdldqr,inqigxioxdiaelhbilithujdidx
stq.qodikx ictxbiaxskhou,ighrdthv dhou,isqtcxtbhou,ighrselkhouixt
atqldhouigqth.ldh.qinxtyrivlrqgixoidjqinxtyilriexouilrileeitqcqtqoaqr
dxiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiltqitqbx.qgmiiXciax trq,inqijxsqidjldikx inhee
r ssxtdidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbibhrrhxoixcistxbxdhouictqqilaaqrridx
qeqadtxohainxtyrivkictqqekirjlthouiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxtyriho
axbsehloaqinhdjidjqidqtbrixcidjhrilutqqbqodicxtiyqqshouidjqiStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiolbqilrrxahldqginhdjidjqinxtymiiKx ialoiqlrhekiaxbsekinhdj
djqidqtbrixcidjhrilutqqbqodivkiyqqshouidjhrinxtyihoidjqirlbqicxtbld
nhdjihdrilddlajqgic eeiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiEhaqorqinjqoikx irjltqihd
nhdjx diajltuqinhdjixdjqtrm

1mGmiiDjqiaxskthujdielnrixcidjqiselaqinjqtqikx iltqiexaldqgilerxiux.qto
njldikx ialoigxinhdjidjhrinxtymiiAxskthujdielnrihoibxrdiax odthqriltq
hoiliaxordlodirdldqixciajlouqmiiHcikx iltqix drhgqidjqi ohdqgiRdldqr,
ajqayidjqielnrixcikx tiax odtkihoilgghdhxoidxidjqidqtbrixcidjhr
lutqqbqodivqcxtqigxnoexlghou,iaxskhou,ighrselkhou,isqtcxtbhou,
ghrdthv dhouixtiatqldhouigqth.ldh.qinxtyrivlrqgixoidjhrinxtyixtilok
xdjqtiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxtymiiDjqiCx ogldhxoiblyqriox
tqstqrqodldhxoriaxoaqtohouidjqiaxskthujdirdld rixcilokinxtyihoilok
ax odtkix drhgqidjqi ohdqgiRdldqrm

1mQmii oeqrrikx ijl.qitqbx.qgileeitqcqtqoaqridxiStxfqadiU dqovqtu:

1mQm1miiDjqicxeexnhouirqodqoaq,inhdjiladh.qiehoyridx,ixtixdjqt
hbbqghldqilaaqrridx,idjqic eeiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiEhaqorqib rdilssqlt
stxbhoqodekinjqoq.qtilokiaxskixciliStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxtyi(lokinxty
xoinjhajidjqisjtlrqi“StxfqadiU dqovqtu”ilssqltr,ixtinhdjinjhajidjq
sjtlrqi“StxfqadiU dqovqtu”ihrilrrxahldqg)ihrilaaqrrqg,ighrselkqg,
sqtcxtbqg,i.hqnqg,iaxshqgixtighrdthv dqg:

DjhriqVxxyihricxtidjqi rqixcilokxoqiloknjqtqildioxiaxrdiloginhdjilebxrd
oxitqrdthadhxorinjldrxq.qtmiiKx iblkiaxskihd,iuh.qihdilnlkixtitq- rqihd
 ogqtidjqidqtbrixcidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhaqorqihoae gqginhdjidjhr
qVxxyixtixoehoqildinnnmu dqovqtumxtu

1mQm2miiHciloihogh.hg leiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyihr
gqth.qgictxbidjqis vehaigxblhoi(gxqrioxdiaxodlhoilioxdhaqihoghaldhou
djldihdihrisxrdqginhdjisqtbhrrhxoixcidjqiaxskthujdijxegqt),idjqinxty
aloivqiaxshqgilogighrdthv dqgidxilokxoqihoidjqi ohdqgiRdldqrinhdjx d
slkhouilokicqqrixtiajltuqrmiiHcikx iltqitqghrdthv dhouixtistx.hghou
laaqrridxilinxtyinhdjidjqisjtlrqi“StxfqadiU dqovqtu”ilrrxahldqginhdjixt
lssqlthouixoidjqinxty,ikx ib rdiaxbsekiqhdjqtinhdjidjqitqz htqbqodrixc
sltlutlsjri1mQm1idjtx uji1mQm7ixtixvdlhoisqtbhrrhxoicxtidjqi rqixcidjq
nxtyilogidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbidtlgqbltyilrirqdicxtdjihoisltlutlsjr
1mQm8ixti1mQm9m

1mQm3miiHciloihogh.hg leiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyihrisxrdqg
nhdjidjqisqtbhrrhxoixcidjqiaxskthujdijxegqt,ikx ti rqilogighrdthv dhxo
b rdiaxbsekinhdjivxdjisltlutlsjri1mQm1idjtx uji1mQm7ilogilokilgghdhxole
dqtbrihbsxrqgivkidjqiaxskthujdijxegqtmiiLgghdhxoleidqtbrinheeivqiehoyqg
dxidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiEhaqorqicxtileeinxtyrisxrdqginhdjidjq
sqtbhrrhxoixcidjqiaxskthujdijxegqticx ogildidjqivquhoohouixcidjhrinxtym

1mQm4miiGxioxdi oehoyixtigqdlajixtitqbx.qidjqic eeiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-db
Ehaqorqidqtbrictxbidjhrinxty,ixtilokicheqriaxodlhohouilisltdixcidjhr
nxtyixtilokixdjqtinxtyilrrxahldqginhdjiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbm

1mQm5miiGxioxdiaxsk,ighrselk,isqtcxtb,ighrdthv dqixtitqghrdthv dqidjhr
qeqadtxohainxty,ixtilokisltdixcidjhriqeqadtxohainxty,inhdjx d
stxbhoqodekighrselkhouidjqirqodqoaqirqdicxtdjihoisltlutlsji1mQm1inhdj
ladh.qiehoyrixtihbbqghldqilaaqrridxidjqic eeidqtbrixcidjqiStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiEhaqorqm

1mQm6miiKx iblkiaxo.qtdidxilogighrdthv dqidjhrinxtyihoilokivholtk,
axbstqrrqg,ibltyqgi s,ioxostxsthqdltkixtistxsthqdltkicxtb,ihoae ghou
lokinxtgistxaqrrhouixtijksqtdqpdicxtbmiiJxnq.qt,ihcikx istx.hgqilaaqrr
dxixtighrdthv dqiaxshqrixciliStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxtyihoilicxtbld
xdjqtidjloi“Selhoi.loheeliLRAHH”ixtixdjqticxtbldi rqgihoidjqixcchahle
.qtrhxoisxrdqgixoidjqixcchahleiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinqvirhdq
(nnnmu dqovqtumxtu),ikx ib rd,ildioxilgghdhxoleiaxrd,icqqixtiqpsqorqidx
djqi rqt,istx.hgqiliaxsk,ilibqlorixciqpsxtdhouiliaxsk,ixtilibqlorixc
xvdlhohouiliaxski sxoitqz qrd,ixcidjqinxtyihoihdrixthuholei“Selho
.loheeliLRAHH”ixtixdjqticxtbmiiLokiledqtoldqicxtbldib rdihoae gqidjq
c eeiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiEhaqorqilrirsqahchqgihoisltlutlsji1mQm1m

1mQm7miiGxioxdiajltuqilicqqicxtilaaqrridx,i.hqnhou,ighrselkhou,
sqtcxtbhou,iaxskhouixtighrdthv dhouilokiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxtyr
 oeqrrikx iaxbsekinhdjisltlutlsji1mQm8ixti1mQm9m

1mQm8miiKx iblkiajltuqilitqlrxolveqicqqicxtiaxshqrixcixtistx.hghou
laaqrridxixtighrdthv dhouiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyr
stx.hgqgidjld

-iKx islkilitxkledkicqqixci20%ixcidjqiutxrristxchdrikx igqth.qictxbidjq
 rqixciStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxtyrialea eldqgi rhouidjqibqdjxgikx 
letqlgki rqidxialea eldqikx tilssehalveqidlpqrmiiDjqicqqihrixnqgidxidjq
xnoqtixcidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbidtlgqblty,iv dijqijlrilutqqgidx
gxoldqitxkledhqri ogqtidjhrisltlutlsjidxidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltk
Ltajh.qiCx ogldhxomiiTxkledkislkbqodrib rdivqislhginhdjhoi60iglkr
cxeexnhouiqlajigldqixoinjhajikx istqsltqi(xtiltqiequleekitqz htqgidx
stqsltq)ikx tisqthxghaidlpitqd tormiiTxkledkislkbqodrirjx egivqiaeqltek
bltyqgilrir ajilogirqodidxidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.q
Cx ogldhxoildidjqilggtqrrirsqahchqgihoiRqadhxoi4,i“Hocxtbldhxoilvx d
gxoldhxoridxidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxom”

-iKx istx.hgqilic eeitqc ogixcilokibxoqkislhgivkili rqtinjxioxdhchqr
kx ihointhdhoui(xtivkiq-blhe)inhdjhoi30iglkrixcitqaqhsdidjldir/jqigxqr
oxdilutqqidxidjqidqtbrixcidjqic eeiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiEhaqorqmiiKx 
b rditqz htqir ajili rqtidxitqd toixtigqrdtxkileeiaxshqrixcidjqinxtyr
sxrrqrrqgihoilisjkrhaleibqgh bilogighraxodho qileei rqixcilogilee
laaqrridxixdjqtiaxshqrixciStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxtyrm

-iKx istx.hgq,ihoilaaxtgloaqinhdjisltlutlsji1mCm3,ilic eeitqc ogixcilok
bxoqkislhgicxtilinxtyixtilitqselaqbqodiaxsk,ihciligqcqadihoidjq
qeqadtxohainxtyihrighrax.qtqgilogitqsxtdqgidxikx inhdjhoi90iglkrixc
tqaqhsdixcidjqinxtym

-iKx iaxbsekinhdjileeixdjqtidqtbrixcidjhrilutqqbqodicxtictqq
ghrdthv dhxoixciStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxtyrm

1mQm9miiHcikx inhrjidxiajltuqilicqqixtighrdthv dqiliStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyixtiutx sixcinxtyrixoighccqtqodidqtbridjlo
ltqirqdicxtdjihoidjhrilutqqbqod,ikx ib rdixvdlhoisqtbhrrhxoihointhdhou
ctxbivxdjidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxoilogiBhajlqe
Jltd,idjqixnoqtixcidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbidtlgqbltymiiAxodladidjq
Cx ogldhxoilrirqdicxtdjihoiRqadhxoi3ivqexnm

1mCm

1mCm1miiStxfqadiU dqovqtui.xe odqqtrilogiqbsexkqqriqpsqogiaxorhgqtlveq
qccxtdidxihgqodhck,igxiaxskthujditqrqltajixo,idtlorathvqilogistxxctqlg
s vehaigxblhoinxtyrihoiatqldhouidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiaxeeqadhxom
Gqrshdqidjqrqiqccxtdr,iStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyr,ilogidjq
bqgh bixoinjhajidjqkiblkivqirdxtqg,iblkiaxodlhoi“Gqcqadr,”ir ajilr,iv d
oxdiehbhdqgidx,ihoaxbseqdq,iholaa tldqixtiaxtt sdigldl,idtlorathsdhxo
qttxtr,iliaxskthujdixtixdjqtihodqeeqad leistxsqtdkihocthouqbqod,il
gqcqadh.qixtiglbluqgighryixtixdjqtibqgh b,iliaxbs dqti.ht r,ixt
axbs dqtiaxgqridjldiglbluqixtialooxdivqitqlgivkikx tiqz hsbqodm

1mCm2miiEHBHDQGiNLTTLODK,iGHRAELHBQTiXCiGLBLUQRi-iQpaqsdicxtidjqi“Thujd
xciTqselaqbqodixtiTqc og”igqrathvqgihoisltlutlsji1mCm3,idjqiStxfqad
U dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxo,idjqixnoqtixcidjqiStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbidtlgqblty,ilogilokixdjqtisltdkighrdthv dhouiliStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyi ogqtidjhrilutqqbqod,ighraelhbilee
ehlvhehdkidxikx icxtiglbluqr,iaxrdrilogiqpsqorqr,ihoae ghouiequleicqqrm
KX iLUTQQiDJLDiKX iJL.QiOXiTQBQGHQRiCXTiOQUEHUQOAQ,iRDTHADiEHLVHEHDK,
VTQLAJiXCiNLTTLODKiXTiVTQLAJiXCiAXODTLADiQPAQSDiDJXRQiSTX.HGQGiHO
SLTLUTLSJiC3miiKX iLUTQQiDJLDiDJQiCX OGLDHXO,iDJQiDTLGQBLTYiXNOQT,iLOG
LOKiGHRDTHV DXTi OGQTiDJHRiLUTQQBQODiNHEEiOXDiVQiEHLVEQiDXiKX iCXT
LAD LE,iGHTQAD,iHOGHTQAD,iAXORQZ QODHLE,iS OHDH.QiXTiHOAHGQODLEiGLBLUQR
Q.QOiHCiKX iUH.QiOXDHAQiXCiDJQiSXRRHVHEHDKiXCiR AJiGLBLUQm

1mCm3miiEHBHDQGiTHUJDiXCiTQSELAQBQODiXTiTQC OGi-iHcikx ighrax.qtil
gqcqadihoidjhriqeqadtxohainxtyinhdjhoi90iglkrixcitqaqh.houihd,ikx ialo
tqaqh.qilitqc ogixcidjqibxoqki(hcilok)ikx islhgicxtihdivkirqoghouil
nthddqoiqpseloldhxoidxidjqisqtrxoikx itqaqh.qgidjqinxtyictxbmiiHcikx 
tqaqh.qgidjqinxtyixoilisjkrhaleibqgh b,ikx ib rditqd toidjqibqgh binhdj
kx tinthddqoiqpseloldhxomiiDjqisqtrxoixtiqodhdkidjldistx.hgqgikx inhdj
djqigqcqadh.qinxtyiblkiqeqadidxistx.hgqilitqselaqbqodiaxskihoiehq ixcil
tqc ogmiiHcikx itqaqh.qgidjqinxtyiqeqadtxohaleek,idjqisqtrxoixtiqodhdk
stx.hghouihdidxikx iblkiajxxrqidxiuh.qikx ilirqaxogixssxtd ohdkidx
tqaqh.qidjqinxtyiqeqadtxohaleekihoiehq ixcilitqc ogmiiHcidjqirqaxog
axskihrilerxigqcqadh.q,ikx iblkigqblogilitqc ogihointhdhouinhdjx d
c tdjqtixssxtd ohdhqridxichpidjqistxveqbm

1mCm4miiQpaqsdicxtidjqiehbhdqgithujdixcitqselaqbqodixtitqc ogirqdicxtdj
hoisltlutlsji1mCm3,idjhrinxtyihristx.hgqgidxikx i‘LR-HR’iNHDJiOXiXDJQT
NLTTLODHQRiXCiLOKiYHOG,iQPSTQRRiXTiHBSEHQG,iHOAE GHOUiV DiOXDiEHBHDQG
DXiNLTTLODHQRiXCiBQTAJLODHVHEHDKiXTiCHDOQRRiCXTiLOKiS TSXRQm

1mCm5miiRxbqirdldqrigxioxdileexnighraelhbqtrixciaqtdlhoihbsehqg
nlttlodhqrixtidjqiqpae rhxoixtiehbhdldhxoixciaqtdlhoidksqrixciglbluqrm
Hcilokighraelhbqtixtiehbhdldhxoirqdicxtdjihoidjhrilutqqbqodi.hxeldqr
djqielnixcidjqirdldqilssehalveqidxidjhrilutqqbqod,idjqilutqqbqodirjlee
vqihodqtstqdqgidxiblyqidjqiblphb bighraelhbqtixtiehbhdldhxoisqtbhddqg
vkidjqilssehalveqirdldqielnmiiDjqiho.lehghdkixti oqocxtaqlvhehdkixcilok
stx.hrhxoixcidjhrilutqqbqodirjleeioxdi.xhgidjqitqblhohouistx.hrhxorm

1mCm6miiHOGQBOHDKi-iKx ilutqqidxihogqbohckilogijxegidjqiCx ogldhxo,idjq
dtlgqbltyixnoqt,ilokiluqodixtiqbsexkqqixcidjqiCx ogldhxo,ilokxoq
stx.hghouiaxshqrixciStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyrihoilaaxtgloaq
nhdjidjhrilutqqbqod,ilogiloki.xe odqqtrilrrxahldqginhdjidjqistxg adhxo,
stxbxdhxoilogighrdthv dhxoixciStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxohainxtyr,
jltbeqrrictxbileeiehlvhehdk,iaxrdrilogiqpsqorqr,ihoae ghouiequleicqqr,
djldilthrqightqadekixtihoghtqadekictxbilokixcidjqicxeexnhouinjhajikx 
gxixtial rqidxixaa t:i(l)ighrdthv dhxoixcidjhrixtilokiStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbinxty,i(v)iledqtldhxo,ibxghchaldhxo,ixtilgghdhxorixt
gqeqdhxoridxilokiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbinxty,ilogi(a)ilokiGqcqadikx 
al rqm


Rqadhxoii2miiHocxtbldhxoilvx didjqiBhrrhxoixciStxfqadiU dqovqtu-db

StxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbihrirkoxokbx rinhdjidjqictqqighrdthv dhxoixc
qeqadtxohainxtyrihoicxtbldritqlglveqivkidjqinhgqrdi.lthqdkixciaxbs dqtr
hoae ghouixvrxeqdq,ixeg,ibhggeq-luqgilogioqniaxbs dqtrmiiHdiqphrdr
vqal rqixcidjqiqccxtdrixcij ogtqgrixci.xe odqqtrilogigxoldhxorictxb
sqxseqihoileeinleyrixciehcqm

.xe odqqtrilogicholoahleir ssxtdidxistx.hgqi.xe odqqtrinhdjidjq
lrrhrdloaqidjqkioqqg,iltqiathdhaleidxitqlajhouiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-db’r
uxlerilogiqor thouidjldidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiaxeeqadhxoinheeitqblho
ctqqekil.lhelveqicxtiuqoqtldhxoridxiaxbqmiiHoi2001,idjqiStxfqad
U dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxoinlriatqldqgidxistx.hgqilirqa tq
logisqtbloqodic d tqicxtiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbilogic d tqiuqoqtldhxorm
Dxieqltoibxtqilvx didjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxo
logijxnikx tiqccxtdrilogigxoldhxorialoijqes,irqqiRqadhxori3ilogi4ilog
djqiCx ogldhxoinqvisluqildijdds://nnnmsuelcmxtum


Rqadhxoi3miiHocxtbldhxoilvx didjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.q
Cx ogldhxo

DjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxoihrilioxoistxchd
501(a)(3)iqg aldhxoleiaxtsxtldhxoixtulohwqgi ogqtidjqielnrixcidjqirdldq
xciBhrrhrrhsshilogiutlodqgidlpiqpqbsdirdld rivkidjqiHodqtoleiTq.qo q
Rqt.haqmiiDjqiCx ogldhxo’riQHOixticqgqtleidlpihgqodhchaldhxoio bvqtihr
64-6221541miiHdri501(a)(3)ieqddqtihrisxrdqgild
jdds://suelcmxtu/c ogtlhrhoumiiAxodthv dhxoridxidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu
EhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxoiltqidlpigqg adhveqidxidjqic eeiqpdqod
sqtbhddqgivki mRmicqgqtleielnrilogikx tirdldq’rielnrm

DjqiCx ogldhxo’risthoahsleixcchaqihriexaldqgildi4557iBqeloiGtmiRm
Clhtvloyr,iLY,i99712m,iv dihdri.xe odqqtrilogiqbsexkqqriltqiralddqtqg
djtx ujx dio bqtx riexaldhxormiiHdriv rhoqrrixcchaqihriexaldqgildi809
Oxtdji1500iNqrd,iRlediElyqiAhdk,i Di84116,i(801)i596-1887,iqblhe
v rhoqrr@suelcmxtumiiQblheiaxodladiehoyrilogi sidxigldqiaxodlad
hocxtbldhxoialoivqicx ogildidjqiCx ogldhxo’rinqvirhdqilogixcchahleisluq
ldijdds://suelcmxtu

Cxtilgghdhxoleiaxodladihocxtbldhxo:iGtmiUtquxtkiVmiOqnvkiAjhqc
Qpqa dh.qilogiGhtqadxtiuvoqnvk@suelcmxtu


Rqadhxoi4miiHocxtbldhxoilvx diGxoldhxoridxidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu
EhdqtltkiLtajh.qiCx ogldhxo

StxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbigqsqogri sxoilogialooxdir t.h.qinhdjx dinhgq
rstqlgis vehair ssxtdilogigxoldhxoridxialttkix dihdribhrrhxoixc
hoatqlrhouidjqio bvqtixcis vehaigxblhoilogiehaqorqginxtyridjldialoivq
ctqqekighrdthv dqgihoiblajhoqitqlglveqicxtbilaaqrrhveqivkidjqinhgqrd
lttlkixciqz hsbqodihoae ghouix dgldqgiqz hsbqodmiiBlokirbleeigxoldhxor
($1idxi$5,000)iltqisltdha eltekihbsxtdlodidxiblhodlhohouidlpiqpqbsd
rdld rinhdjidjqiHTRm

DjqiCx ogldhxoihriaxbbhddqgidxiaxbsekhouinhdjidjqielnritqu eldhou
ajlthdhqrilogiajlthdlveqigxoldhxorihoileei50irdldqrixcidjqi ohdqg
RdldqrmiiAxbsehloaqitqz htqbqodriltqioxdi ohcxtbilogihdidlyqril
axorhgqtlveqiqccxtd,ib ajislsqtnxtyilogiblokicqqridxibqqdilogiyqqsi s
nhdjidjqrqitqz htqbqodrmiiNqigxioxdirxehahdigxoldhxorihoiexaldhxor
njqtqinqijl.qioxditqaqh.qginthddqoiaxochtbldhxoixciaxbsehloaqmiiDxiRQOG
GXOLDHXORixtigqdqtbhoqidjqirdld rixciaxbsehloaqicxtilokisltdha elt
rdldqi.hrhdijdds://suelcmxtu

Njheqinqialooxdilogigxioxdirxehahdiaxodthv dhxorictxbirdldqrinjqtqinq
jl.qioxdibqdidjqirxehahdldhxoitqz htqbqodr,inqiyoxnixcioxistxjhvhdhxo
lulhordilaaqsdhoui orxehahdqgigxoldhxorictxbigxoxtrihoir ajirdldqrinjx
lsstxlaji rinhdjixccqtridxigxoldqm

Hodqtoldhxoleigxoldhxoriltqiutldqc eekilaaqsdqg,iv dinqialooxdiblyqilok
rdldqbqodriaxoaqtohouidlpidtqldbqodixcigxoldhxoritqaqh.qgictxbix drhgq
djqi ohdqgiRdldqrmii mRmielnrilexoqirnlbsix tirbleeirdlccm

SeqlrqiajqayidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiNqvisluqricxtia ttqodigxoldhxo
bqdjxgrilogilggtqrrqrmiiGxoldhxoriltqilaaqsdqgihoilio bvqtixcixdjqt
nlkrihoae ghouiajqayr,ixoehoqislkbqodrilogiatqghdialtgigxoldhxormiDx
gxoldq,iseqlrqi.hrhd:ijdds://suelcmxtu/gxoldq


Rqadhxoi5miiUqoqtleiHocxtbldhxoiLvx diStxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqeqadtxoha
nxtyrm

StxcqrrxtiBhajlqeiRmiJltdihridjqixthuholdxtixcidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtu-db
axoaqsdixciliehvtltkixciqeqadtxohainxtyridjldiax egivqictqqekirjltqg
nhdjilokxoqmiiCxtidjhtdkikqltr,ijqistxg aqgilogighrdthv dqgiStxfqad
U dqovqtu-dbiqVxxyrinhdjixoekiliexxrqioqdnxtyixci.xe odqqtir ssxtdm


StxfqadiU dqovqtu-dbiqVxxyriltqixcdqoiatqldqgictxbirq.qtleisthodqg
qghdhxor,ileeixcinjhajiltqiaxochtbqgilriS vehaiGxblhoihoidjqi mRm
 oeqrriliaxskthujdioxdhaqihrihoae gqgmiiDj r,inqigxioxdioqaqrrlthek
yqqsiqVxxyrihoiaxbsehloaqinhdjilokisltdha eltislsqtiqghdhxom


Bxrdisqxseqirdltdildix tiNqvirhdqinjhajijlridjqiblhoiSUirqltaj
clahehdk:

iijdds://nnnmu dqovqtumxtu

DjhriNqvirhdqihoae gqrihocxtbldhxoilvx diStxfqadiU dqovqtu-db,
hoae ghouijxnidxiblyqigxoldhxoridxidjqiStxfqadiU dqovqtuiEhdqtltk
Ltajh.qiCx ogldhxo,ijxnidxijqesistxg aqix tioqniqVxxyr,ilogijxnidx
r vrathvqidxix tiqblheioqnreqddqtidxijqltilvx dioqniqVxxyrm






