GufzcmlySjlcvecus'hyVwrwywvbyBwdwowvlkywvbyFlxcuyGfcdh,yeoyXcvuoyXwulyDkrdwv

LxkhycEff.ykhyifuylxcyjhcyfiywvofvcywvoaxcucywlyvfymfhlywvbyaklx
wrdfhlyvfyuchlukmlkfvhyaxwlhfcpcuqyyOfjydwoymfgoykl,yskpcyklywawoyfu
uc-jhcyklyjvbcuylxcylcudhyfiylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRkmcvhcykvmrjbcb
aklxylxkhycEff.yfuyfvrkvcywlyaaaqsjlcvecusqfus


Lklrc:yVwrwywvbyBwdwowvlkywvbyFlxcuyGfcdh

Wjlxfu:yXcvuoyXwulyDkrdwv

UcrcwhcyBwlc:yFmlfecuy12,y2006y[CEff.y#19529]

Rwvsjwsc:yCvsrkhx

Mxwuwmlcuyhclycvmfbkvs:yJLI-8

***yHLWULyFIyLXKHyGUFZCMLySJLCVECUSyCEFF.yVWRWyWVByBWDWOWVLKyWVByFLXCUyGFCDHy***




GufbjmcbyeoyHwv.wuyPkhawvwlxwvywvbylxcyFvrkvcyBkhlukejlcb
GuffiucwbkvsyLcwdywlyxllg://aaaqgsbgqvcly(Lxkhyeff.yawh
gufbjmcbyiufdyhmwvvcbykdwschyfiygjerkmybfdwkvydwlcukwr
iufdylxcySffsrcyGukvlygufzcmlq)









yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyLuwvhmukecu'hyvflc:

yy1qyLxcyhgcrrkvs,ywmmcvlh,ywvbybkwmuklkmwrydwu.hyfiyHwvh.uklyafubhykh
yyvflymfvhkhlcvlylxufjsxylxcyeff.qyLxcyfukskvwryhgcrrkvs,ywmmcvlh,ywvb
yybkwmuklkmwrydwu.hywucyuclwkvcbq

yy2qyLxcykv-rkvcyvflchyucicuylfyrkvchykvylxcygfcdhqyLxchcyxwpcyeccv
yymfvpculcbylfyifflvflchyifuycwhoyucicucvmcqyLxcykvifudwlkfvyucswubkvs
yylxcyrkvcyucicuucbylfykhyxfacpcuyuclwkvcbq



yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyVWRWyWVByBWDWOWVLK

yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyWVByFLXCUyGFCDH


yyLUWVHRWLCByIUFDyLXCyHWVHMUKLyKVLFyCVSRKHXyPCUHC,yAKLXyDOLXFRFSKMWR
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyWVByMUKLKMWRyVFLCHq




yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyEOyLXC
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyUCPqyXCVUOyXWULyDKRDWV,yDqyWq

GUCECVBWUOyFIyACHLDKVHLCU;yDKVKHLCUyFIyHLqyDWUSWUCL'H;yWVByRWLCyGUFICHHFU
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyFIyGFCLUOyKVyLXCyJVKPCUHKLOyFIyF IFUBq





yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyF IFUB:yBqyWqyLWREFOHq
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyDyBMMMy   P

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*




LFyDOyDFLXCU,

LFyAXFDyLXCHCyLUWVHRWLKFVHyXWPCyWIIFUBCB
DJMXyGRCWHJUC,

WVByLFyAXFD,yWLyXCUyWBPWVMCByWSC,
LFyXWPCyWIIFUBCByGRCWHJUC

KHyLXCyDFHLySUWLKIOKVSyUCAWUByFIyRKLCUWUO
RWEFJU,

LXKHyPFRJDCyKHyKVHMUKECB,

EOyXCUyWIICMLKFVWLCyHFVq

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*




MFVLCVLH:


VWRWyWVByBWDWOWVLK
yyVFLCH

LXCyBCWLXyFIyOWZVWBWLLW
yyVFLCH

LXCyEUWXDKV'HyRWDCVL
yyVFLCH

LXCyBCRJSC

LXCyBCHMCVLyFIyLXCySWVSCH

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*




GUCIWMCq


Lxfhcyiukcvbhyaxfyxwpcylw.cvywvykvlcuchlykvydoyrklcuwuoygufbjmlkfvh
dwoyiccryhfdcyhjugukhcywlydoywggcwuwvmcykvylxcymxwuwmlcuyfiyw
luwvhrwlfuyfiyHwvhmuklygfcluoqyLfylxfhc,ywvbykvbccbylfywrryaxfydwo
lw.cyjgylxcyguchcvlypfrjdc,yKyfacyhfdcyc grwvwlkfvyfiydoyguclcvhkfvh
whywyiwklxijrykvlcuguclcuyfiydoyfukskvwrylc lqyLxfhcyguclcvhkfvhywuc
pcuoyxjderc;ywvbyKymwvyjvicksvcbroyhwo,ylxwlykiylxcyikcrbyxwbyeccv
rk.croylfyecyfmmjgkcbyeoyflxcuh,yaxfydksxlyjvklcygfclkmwrygfacuhyaklx
wygufifjvby.vfarcbscyfiylxcyhwmucbyrwvsjwscyfiyKvbkw,yKyhxfjrbyxwpc
aklxbuwavywlyfvmcyiufdylxcymfdgclklkfvqyEjl,ykvyiwml,ykvylxkhymfjvluo
lxcyhljbcvlhyfiyfukcvlwryrklcuwljuc,ycvbfacbyaklxywylwhlcywvbyiccrkvs
ifuygfcluo,ywucyhfyicaykvyvjdecu,ylxwlywvoywllcdglylfydw.cy.vfavylxc
gcmjrkwuymxwuwmlcuyfiylxfhcyucdwu.wercyafu.h,ylxcyfrbydolxfrfskmwr
cgkmhyfiyKvbkw,ydwoyecyucmckpcbyaklxykvbjrscvmcyeoywrryaxfywuc
kvlcuchlcbykvylxcyxkhlfuoyfiygfcluoqyDuqyAkrhfvywrfvc,yhkvmcyHkuyAq
Zfvch,yxwhyjvklcbywygfclkmwryscvkjhyaklxybccgyHwvhmuklyhmxfrwuhxkg;
ejlyxcyxwhykvyscvcuwrygucicuucbylxcyrwlcuywvbydfucygfrkhxcb
gcukfb--lxwlyfiy.wrkbwhwywvbylxcybuwdwlkhlh--lfylxcyujbcu,yoclykvydo
fgkvkfv,yvflyrchhymjukfjhywvbygfclkmwryhluwkvhyfiylxcyfrbcuycgkm
ewubhq

WyeukciywmmfjvlyfiylxcydwvvcuykvyaxkmxyKyecmwdcycvswscbykvylxchc
hljbkch,yakrryechlyc grwkvylxcyc lcvlyfiydoygufikmkcvmoqyBjukvsylxc
lafyrwhlyocwuhykvyaxkmxyKyxcrbylxcyfiikmcyfiyGufichhfuyfiyGfcluoykv
lxcyJvkpcuhkloyfiyF ifub,yxwpkvsyc xwjhlcbylxcyhjezcmlyaxkmxyKyxwb
mxfhcvyifuydoylcudkvwrymfjuhc,yKyawhywlywyrfhhyifuyhfdcydwlcukwrhyifu
lxcyicayucdwkvkvsyrcmljuchyecifucydoyfiikmcyhxfjrbyc gkucqyKyxwbyeccv
rcbyeoylxcywubcvlymjukfhklo,yaxkmxyKyxwpcycpcuyicrlylfywmnjkucyhfdc
.vfarcbscyfiylxcygfcluoyfiywrrywschywvbyvwlkfvh--lfyc wdkvcyhfdcyfi
lxcygjerkmwlkfvhyfiyIucvmxywvbyScudwv,ywhyacrrywhyCvsrkhxyhmxfrwuh,yfv
lxcyhjezcmlyfiyKvbkwvygfcluo;ymxkciroylxfhcyfiylxcyHmxrcscrh,yfiyEfgg,
wvbyfiyBcyMxctoqyKyawhyhlujm.yaklxylxcyhkvsjrwukloywvbymwglkpwlcbyeo
lxcyc lucdcyecwjlo,ywhyklywggcwucbylfydc,yfiyhfdcyfiylxcyc luwmlh,
chgcmkwrroylxfhcyiufdylxcysucwlycgkmygfcdh,ylxcyDwxwexwuwlwywvbylxc
Uwdwowvw,ykvylxckuyXfdcukmyhkdgrkmkloyhfylflwrroyfggfhklcylfylxc
fubkvwuoyvflkfvhycvlculwkvcbyfiywrrycwhlcuvygfcluoqyKyawhykvbjmcbylf
wllcdgl,yaklxfjlywvoykvhlujmlkfv,ywvbyaklxylxcyicaycrcdcvlwuoyafu.h
axkmxymfjrbyecygufmjucb,ylxcySuwddwuhyfiyAkr.kvhywvbyEfgg,ylxc
SrfhhwukchyfiyEfggywvbyUfhcvy(DuqyAkrhfv'hyBkmlkfvwuoyawhylxcvyfjlyfi
gukvlywvbymfjrbyvflyecygjumxwhcb),ylfyfelwkvyhfdcy.vfarcbscyfiylxkh
afvbcuijrywvbydohlcukfjhyrwvsjwscqyLxcyhljboysucayjgfvydc,ywvbyafjrb
xwpcyeccvygjuhjcbyaklxydfucywubfju,ygcuxwghyaklxydfucyhjmmchh,yejlyifu
lxcymfvhlwvlykvlcuujglkfvyfiydfucykdgcuwlkpcygufichhkfvwrywvbyrklcuwuo
wpfmwlkfvhqyKvyklhcriylxcyHwvhmuklykhywvykvc xwjhlkercyhjezcmlyfi
kvlcuchl;ykvyklhysuwddwlkmwryhlujmljucydfucyucsjrwu,ywulkikmkwr,ywvb
mfgkfjhylxwvylxcydfhlygcuicmlyfiylxcyachlcuvyrwvsjwsch;ykvyklhyfukskv,
lxcygwucvlyiufdyaxkmxylxcyfrbcuySucc.,ylxcyRwlkvywvbylxcyLcjlfvkm
lfvsjchyhccdylfyeuwvmxyfjlywvbybcpcrfgylxcdhcrpchyjgfvybkhlkvmlywvb
bkhmcuvkercygukvmkgrchq

KypcvljucbylfymfddjvkmwlcylfylxcyDcdecuhyfiylxcyJvkpcuhkloyaxf
wllcvbcbydoyrcmljuch,ydoybkhmfpcukch,ywhyklyacuc,ykvylxcyjv.vfav
ucskfvyfiyKvbkwvygfcluo,ywvbylfykvlufbjmcyluwvhrwlkfvhyfiyhjmx
gwhhwschywhywggcwucbylfydcyfiygcmjrkwuyhkvsjrwukloyfuyecwjloqyLxfjsxyK
awhyhlkrrydfpkvsykvylxcyrcwbkvs-hlukvshyfiydoyrcwuvcbysjkbch,yKyxwb
felwkvcbyhjiikmkcvlywmnjwkvlwvmcyaklxylxcyrwvsjwscylfymfdgwucylxcku
kvlcuguclwlkfvhyaklxylxcyfukskvwrylc lqyKywilcuawubhycdefbkcbyhfdc
gwulhyfiydoyrcmljuchykvywvywulkmrcykvylxcyNjwulcuroyUcpkca,ykvyfubcu
lfymfvlukejlcywhyiwuywhyawhykvydoygfacuylfyfgcvylxkhyvcaywvbywrdfhl
jvlufbbcvyikcrbyfiyrklcuwljucylfylxcyCvsrkhxyucwbcuq

HlkrryKyhxfjrbyvflyxwpcyguchjdcbylfyifudylxchcyluwvhrwlkfvhykvlfyw
hcgwuwlcyafu.,yvfuywmmcbcbylfylxcygufgfhwryfiylxcygjerkhxcuyfiylxc
guchcvlypfrjdc,yaxfyxwhyxkdhcriybchcupcbyhfyacrryfiylxcyhljbcvlhyfi
fukcvlwryrfucyeoyxkhyc mcrrcvlyluwvhrwlkfv,yfuyuwlxcuyucmfdgfhklkfvyfi
Wbcrjvs'hy"XkhlfukmwryH.clmxyfiyHwvhmuklyRklcuwljuc,"yejlyifuylxc
cvmfjuwscdcvlywvbywhhkhlwvmcyfiyDuqyAkrhfv,yvfa,ylxcyJvkpcuhkloydwoyec
gufjbylfyhwo,ylxcyEfbcvyGufichhfuyfiyHwvhmuklywlyF ifubqyLfyxkhydfhl
iukcvbroymwucykvyucpkhkvsylxchcyhxcclh,yKyfacylxcymfuucmlkfvyfiydwvo
cuufuh;ywvbyHwvhmuklyhmxfrwuhyakrryikvbykvylxcyvflchyhfdcyfehcupwlkfvh
fvylxcylc l,yaxkmxyakrrymfvlukejlcylfycrjmkbwlcylxcygfcdyfiyVwrwq
JvbcuylxcyhwvmlkfvyfiyDuqyAkrhfv'hyucpkhkfv,yKydwoypcvljucylfyxfgc
lxwlylxcyluwvhrwlkfvykh,ywlyrcwhl,ywvywmmjuwlcypcuhkfvyfiylxc
fukskvwr;ywvbyKymwvvflylffyhlufvsroyc guchhydoysuwlkljbcyifuylxc
rwefjuyaxkmxyDuqyAkrhfvyxwhyeccvyhfy.kvbywhylfyc gcvbyfvydoykdgcuicml
wvbyjvguclcvbkvsyafu.q

Lxcypcuhkikmwlkfv,yfuyuwlxcuylxcydclukmwryhohlcd,yaxkmxyKyxwpc
wbfglcb,ykhywvyc gcukdcvl,yxfayiwuywyhjmmchhijryfvcydjhlyecyzjbscbyeo
flxcuhqyLxcyfukskvwrypcuhcykvyaxkmxylxcypwhlycgkmhyfiyPowhwywvb
Pwrdk.kywucymfdgfhcbykhymwrrcbylxcyHrf.w,yaxkmxykhylxjhybchmukecbyeo
HmxrcscrykvyxkhyKvbkhmxcyEkerkflxc.,ygqy36:y"Lxcyfrbchl,ydfhlyhkdgrc,
wvbydfhlyscvcuwrroywbfglcbydcwhjucykhylxcyHrf.w;ywybkhlkmxyfiylaf
hk lccvyhorrwerc-rkvch,ybkpkbcbywlylxcycksxlxyhorrwercq"yWmmfubkvsylf
fjuygufhfbkwrydwu.h,ylxcyifrrfakvsykhylxcyhmxcdc:--

jyjyjyjy|yjy-y-y-y|yjyjyjyjy|yjy-yjy-
-y-y-y-y|yyyyyyyjy|y-y-y-y-y|yyyyyyyj

jyjyjyjy|yjy-y-y-y|yjyjyjyjy|yjy-yjyj
-y-y-y-y|y-yyyyyjy|y-y-y-y-y|yyyyyyy-

Lxcyikuhlyifjuyhorrwerchywucyefjvbyeoyvfyujrc;ylxcyhcmfvbyxwri,yfvylxc
mfvluwuo,ykhyjvwrlcuweroyik cb,yc mcglkvsylxwlylxcyrwhlyhorrwercyxwh
lxcymfddfvyrkmcvmcyfiylcudkvwlkfvqyKvylxcyhcmfvbyxwriypcuhc,yKybfyvfl
ucdcdecuywyhkvsrcykvhlwvmcyfiybcpkwlkfvyiufdylxkh,ylxfjsxyhfdclkdch,
ejlypcuoyhcrbfd,ylxcyikuhlyxwriypcuhcycvbhyaklxywvflxcuynjwbukhorrwerc
ifflqyLxcyucwbcuyaxfykhymjukfjhyfvylxcyhjezcml,ydwoymfdgwucyDuq
Mfrceuff.c'hycrwefuwlcychhwohyfvyHwvhmuklygfcluo,y.fhcswulcv'hyguciwmc
lfyxkhyLuwvhrwlkfvyfiyVwrw,ywvbyEfgg'hyguciwmcylfyxkhyLuwvhrwlkfvyfi
HcrcmlkfvhyiufdylxcyDwxwexwuwlwq

KvylxcyikuhlyluwvhrwlkfvhyaxkmxyKywllcdglcb,ywyicaygwhhwschyiufdylxc
Exwswpwl-Sklw,yKywbxcucbywhyvcwuroywhygfhhkercylfylxcydcwhjucyfiylxc
fukskvwr;ykvylxcyVwrw,ykvyfubcuylfyskpcylxcyvwuuwlkpcywydfucycwhoywvb
lufmxwkmyirfa,yKyfdkllcbyfvcyhorrwerc,ywvbykvyhfdcybcsuccymxwvscbylxc
hlujmljucyfiylxcypcuhcq

_Zjro_y1835q




VWRWyWVByBWDWOWVLKq


LxcycgkhfbcyfiyVwrwykhyc luwmlcbyiufdylxcyPwvwgwupwd,ylxcylxkubygwul
fiylxcyDwxwexwuwlw,ylxcysucwlyKvbkwvygfcd,yaxkmxymfvlwkvhy100,000
hrf.wh,yfuybkhlkmxhqyLxcyhwsc,yPukxwbwhpw,yucrwlchylxcyhlfuoyfiyVwrw
lfy.kvsyOjbkhxlxkuw,ykvyfubcuylfymfvhfrcyxkdyjvbcuylxcydkhcukchylf
axkmxyxcyawhyc gfhcbyeoyewbyhjmmchhykvygrwoqyEoylxcylcudhyfiylxc
swdkvsyluwvhwmlkfv,ykvyaxkmxyxcyawhyafuhlcbyeoyHw.jvk,yaxfylxucaylxc
bkmcyifuyBjuofbxwvw,yxcyawhymfvbcdvcbylfyawvbcuyaklxyxkhyeuflxcuhyifu
lacrpcyocwuhykvylxcyifuchlqyLxcywbpcvljuchyfiyVwrwyhxfacbyxfaylxwl
.kvs,yxwpkvsyeccvykvylxcyhwdcydwvvcuyjvifuljvwlcyaklxylxcybkmc,yxwb
hjiicucbyhlkrrysucwlcuylfkrywvbydkhcuo,ywvbyxwbywlyrcvslxyucmfpcucb
xkhy.kvsbfdywvbyxkhyakicqyLxcygfgjrwukloyfiylxkhyiwercyaklxylxc
vwlkpch,ykhyhjiikmkcvlroygufpcbyeoylxcyvjdcufjhygfclkmypcuhkfvhyfiylxc
hlfuoqyLxcyVwrfbwow,ywygfcdywhmukecbylfy.wrkbwh,yhxfjrbyikuhlyec
dcvlkfvcbqyWyvcaycbklkfvyfiylxkhyafu.yxwhyeccvyucmcvlroygjerkhxcbyeo
IcubkvwvbyEcvwuo;yacyxwpcywyvflkmcyfiyklykvylxcyNjwulcuroyUcpkca:ykl
hccdhylfyecwuylxcyhwdcyucrwlkfvylfylxcyhkdgrcywvbyvwlkfvwrycgkhfbcyfi
lxcyDwxwexwuwlw,ywhylxcyhckmcvlchlkyfiyKlwroylfyBwvlcyfuyWuìfhlf,yfu
SfvsfuwylfylxcygfcdyfiylxcyMkbqyWvflxcuygfcdymwrrcbyVwkhxwbxw,ykv
lacvlo-lafyeff.h,ybfchyvflymfdgrclcylxcyhlfuo,yejlyfvroymwuukchyklywh
iwuywhylxcyikilccvlxyeff.qyLxcucykhywyLwdjrkmypcuhkfvyfiylxcyhwdc
hlfuo,yluwvhrwlcbyeoy.kvbcuhrco,ykvyxkhyhgcmkdcvhyfiyXkvbjyRklcuwljucq
Lxcylxkubyeff.yfiylxcygfcdyfiyHukxwuhxw,ymfvlwkvkvsy135yhrf.wh,ykh
cvlkucroyfmmjgkcbyaklxylxcymfvpcuhwlkfvyeclaccvyBwdwowvlkywvbylxc
hawvhy(lxcyscchc),ykvyaxkmxylxcyekubhylfyc mklcyxcuyrfpc,ybacrryaklx
bkiijhcycrfnjcvmcyfvylxcyguwkhchyfiyVwrwq




VWRWyWVByBWDWOWVLKq

EFF.yKq


yyyyRkpcbyfiyofuc,ywyuwzw,yVwrw,--Pkuwhcvw'hydksxloyhfv,
yyyySkilcbyxcyaklxycpcuoypkuljc,--ecwjlcfjh,yh.krrcbykvylwdkvsyhlccbh:
yyyyXcwbyfiywrrylxcy.kvshyfiydfulwrh--rk.cylxcydfvwumxyfiylxcysfbh,
yyyyFpcu,yfpcuywrryc wrlcb[1]--kvyxkhyhgrcvbfjuyrk.cylxcyhjv:
yyyyXfro,ybccg-ucwbykvylxcyPcbwh[2]--kvyVkhxwbxwyrfubyfiycwulx;[3]
yyyyRfpkvsybkmc,yfiylujlxyjvercdkhxcb[4]--mxkcilwkvyfiywydksxloyxfhlq
yyyyLxcywbdkucbyfiyvfercyafdcv--scvcufjh,yaklxycwmxyhcvhcyhjebjcbq[5]
yyyySjwubkwvyfiylxcyhlwlc;yfiywumxcuh--echl,ywyguchcvlyDwvj[6]yxcq
yyyyyyHfylxcucybacrlykvyxksxyPkbwuexw[7]--Exkdw,ylcuukercykvyhlucvslx,[8]
yyyyAklxywrrypkuljchyerchl,yejlymxkrbrchh--rfvsyifuymxkrbucvyxwbyxcygkvcbq
yyyyDwvoywvyxfroywml,yfvyfiihgukvs[9]--hlkrrykvlcvl,yxwbyxcygcuifudcbq
yyyyLfyxkhymfjulylxcucymwdcywyEuwxdkv,--Bwdwvwylxcyhccuyawhyvwdcbq
yyyyXkdylxcymxkrb-bchkukvsyExkdw--kvywrrybjlkchyh.krrcb,yucmckpcb,
yyyyIcwhlcbyaklxyxkhyufowrymfvhful--kvyxkhyxfhgklwercyxwrrq[10]
yyyyGrcwhcbyfvyxkdylxcysuwlcijryBwdwv,--wvbyxkhynjccvywyeffvyechlfacb,
yyyyFvcyhacclyskur,ylxcygcwuryfiydwkbcvh--wvbylxuccyiwkuywvbyvfercyhfvhq
yyyyBwdwowvlk,yBwdwyBávlw--wvbykrrjhlukfjhyBwdwvw,
yyyyUkmxroyskilcbyaklxywrrypkuljch--dksxlo,yicwuijrykvylxckuydksxlq
yyyyBwdwowvlkyaklxyxcuyecwjlo--aklxyxcuyeukrrkwvmc,yeuksxlvchh,ysuwmc,
yyyyLxufjsxylxcyafurbhyjvukpwrrcbysrfuo--afvylxcyhrcvbcu-awkhlcbydwkbq
yyyyXcu,ywuukpcbywlyerffdyfiyecwjlo,--hwlcywyxjvbucbyhrwpchywufjvb,
yyyyWvbywyxjvbucbypkuskvyxwvbdwkbh--whywufjvbysucwlyKvbuw'hynjccvq[11]
yyyyKvyxcuymfjulyhxfvcyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--bcm.cbyaklxycpcuoyfuvwdcvl,
yyyyDkbyxcuyxwvbdwkbh,yrk.cylxcyrksxlvkvs[12]--hxfvcyhxcyaklxyxcuyiwjrlrchh
yyyyyyyyifud;[13]
yyyyRk.cylxcyrfvs-cocbynjccvyfiyecwjlo--aklxfjlyukpwr,yaklxfjlygccuq
yyyyVcpcuydkbylxcysfbhykddfulwr--vcpcuydkbylxcyOw.hxwyuwmc,[14]
yyyyVfuy'dfvsydcvyawhydwkbyhfyrfpcro--cpcuyxcwubyfi,ycpcuyhccv,
yyyyWhylxcyhfjr-bkhljuekvsydwkbcv--lxwlybkhljuecbylxcyhfjrhyfiysfbhq
yyyyVwrwylff,y'dfvsy.kvshylxcylkscu[15]--gccurchhywdfvsycwulxroydcv,
yyyyRk.cy.wvbwugwykvyxkhyecwjlo[16]--rk.cylxwlyeuksxl-cdefbkcbySfbq
yyyyWrrywufjvbyPkbwuexw'hygukvmchh--guwkhcbylxcoyVwrwykvylxckuyzfoq
yyyyCpcuyguwkhcbylxcoyBwdwowvlk--ufjvbyVkhxwbxw'hyvfercy.kvsq
yyyyXcwukvsyhfycwmxyflxcuhypkuljch--wrryjvhccvylxcoy'swvylfyrfpcq
yyyyLxjhyfiycwmx,yFyhfvyfiy.jvlk,[17]--lxcybccgyhkrcvlygwhhkfvysucaq
yyyyyyVwrw,ykvyxkhyxcwulykdgwlkcvl--rfvscuylxwlybccgyrfpcylfyecwu,
yyyyLfylxcysufpc,ykvyhcmucl,yawvbcucb--eoylxcygwrwmc'ykvdfhlymfjulq
yyyyLxcucylxcyhawvhyxcyhwaybkhgfulkvs[18]--aklxylxckuyakvshyecbufggcbyaklxysfrb:
yyyyLxufjsxylxcysufpcylxjhyrksxlroydfpkvs--fvcyfiylxchcyeuksxlyekubhyxcymwjsxlq
yyyyEjlylxcyekub,ykvyxjdwvyrwvsjwsc--lxjhylxcyafvbcukvsy.kvsywbbuchhcb:
yyyy"Hrwoydcyvfl,yFyscvlrcydfvwumx!--Kyakrrybfylxccyhcupkmcylujc;
yyyyHfykvyBwdwowvlk'hyguchcvmc--akrryKyguwkhcyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs,
yyyyVcpcuywilcuyhxwrrylxcydwkbcv--lxkv.yfiydfulwrydwvyejlylxccq"
yyyyyyLxjhywbbuchhcb,ywlyfvmcylxcydfvwumx--rclylxcyeuksxl-akvscbyekubybcgwulq
yyyyIrcaywawoylxcyhawvhyuczfkmkvs--lfyPkbwuexwyhluwksxlylxcoyirca;
yyyyLfyPkbxwuew'hyhlwlcroymklo:--lxcucyeoyBwdwowvlk'hyiccl,
yyyyBfavyaklxybuffgkvsygrjdchylxcoyhcllrcb--wvbyhxcyswtcbyjgfvylxcyirfm.,
yyyyAfvbcukvsywlylxckuyifudhyhfysuwmcijr--axcucywdkbyxcuydwkbhyhxcyhwlcq
yyyyHgfulkpcroyecswvylxcybwdhcrh--wrrywufjvbylfymxwhcylxcyekubh;
yyyyHmwllcukvsyircaylxcyhawvhyecifucylxcd--wrrywefjlylxcyrfpcroysufpcq
yyyyRksxlroyuwvylxcyvkdercydwkbcvh,--cpcuoyfvcyxcuyekubygjuhjcb;
yyyyEjlylxcyhawvylxwlylxufjsxylxcyifuchl--scvlrcyBwdwowvlkymxwhcb,
yyyyHjbbcvro,ykvyxjdwvyrwvsjwsc--hgw.cylfyBwdwowvlkylxjhq--
yyyyyy"Bwdwowvlk,ykvyVkhxwbxw--Vwrwybacrrh,ylxcyvfercy.kvs--
yyyyRk.cylxcyWhakvwhykvyecwjlo,[19]--gccurchhywdfvsydcvykhyxcq
yyyyFykvmfdgwuwercygukvmchh--lfylxkhyxcufyaculylxfjyacb,
yyyyVfercyekulxywvbygcuicmlyecwjlo--vflyjvafulxoyiujklyxwbyefuvcq
yyyySfbh,ySwvbxwupwh,[20]ydcv,ylxcyHcugcvlh,[21]--wvbylxcyUw.hxwhwh[22]yac'pc
yyyyyyyyhccv,
yyyyWrryac'pcyhccv--fiyvfercyVwrw--vcpcuyxwpcyacyhccvylxcygccuq
yyyyGcwurywulylxfjywdfvsywrryafdcv--Vwrwykhylxcygukbcyfiydcvq
yyyyKiylxcygccurchhyacbylxcygccurchh--erchhcbydjhlylxcyjvkfvyecq"
yyyyyyAxcvylxcyekubylxjhyhluwvscroyhgcw.kvs--scvlrcyBwdwowvlkyxcwub,
yyyyWvhacucbylxjhylxcyafvbcukvsydwkbcv--"LxjhylfyVwrw,yhgcw.ylxfjylffq"
yyyy"Ecyklyhf,"yucgrkcbylxcycss-efuv--lfyPkbwuexw'hyecwjlcfjhydwkbq
yyyyXfdcylxcvyircayxcylfyVkhxwbxw--wvbylfyVwrwylfrbyklywrrq




EFF.yKKq


yyyyBwdwowvlk,ycpcuywilcu--hxcylxcyhawv'hyhacclyhgccmxyxwbyxcwub--
yyyyAklxyxcuhcriyhxcybacrlyvfyrfvscu--wrryxcuhcriyaklxyVwrwybacrlq
yyyyRfhlykvylxfjsxlyhxcyhwlcybczcmlcb--gwrcyxcuydcrwvmxfroymxcc.,
yyyyBwdwowvlkyhwlcywvbyokcrbcb--wrryxcuyhfjrylfyhksxhyfiysukciq
yyyyJgawubyswtkvs,ydcbklwlkpc--aklxywyakrbybkhluwmlcbyrff.,
yyyyAwvyawhywrryxcuyhfilymfdgrc kfv--wvbyaklxygwhhkfvyxcwul-gfhhchhcb,[23]
yyyyVfuykvyhrccgyvfuyscvlrcymfvpcuhc--vfuykvyewvnjclhyifjvbyhxcyzfo;
yyyyVksxlyvfuybwoyhxcymfjrbyvflyhrjdecu--Afc!yfxyafc!yhxcyacglywvbyhwkbq
yyyyXcuyvfyrfvscuyxcuyfavydkhluchh--iufdyxcuyrff.h,yxcuyschljuc,y.vca
yyyyBwdwowvlk'hypkuskvyxwvbdwkbh--lfyPkbwuexw'hydfvwumxylxco
yyyyLfrbyxfaygkvcbyxkhyscvlrcybwjsxlcu--ifuylxcyhfpcucksvyfiydcvq
yyyyLxkhyiufdyBwdwowvlk'hydwkbcvh--axcvylxcyufowryExkdwyxcwub,
yyyyKvyxkhydkvbyxcysuwpcroygfvbcucb--ifuyxkhymxkrbyaxwlyechlyacucybfvcq
yyyy"Axcucifucykhydoyscvlrcybwjsxlcu--iufdyxcuhcriykvydkvbychluwvscb?"
yyyyAxcvylxcyrfubyfiycwulxyxkhybwjsxlcu--hwaykvyerffdkvsyofjlxydwljuc,
yyyy.vcayxcyifuylxcyHawocdewuw[24]--Bwdwowvlk'hylkdcyawhymfdcq
yyyyHluwksxlylxcyrfubyfiydwvoygcwhwvlh[25]--hjddfvcbywrrylxcymxkcihyfiycwulx,
yyyy"MfdcyocylfylxcyHawocdewuw--wrryocyxcufchyfiylxcyafurb!"
yyyyBwdwowvlk'hyHawocdewuw--hffvywhyxcwubylxcy.kvshyfiydcv,
yyyyWrryfecocby.kvsyExkdw'hyhjddfvh--wrrylfyExkdw'hymfjulybucayvcwu;
yyyyCrcgxwvlh,ywvbyhlccbh,ywvbymxwukflh--hawudcbywrfvsylxcyhfjvbkvsyrwvb;
yyyyWrryaklxyukmxywvbypwukfjhyswurwvbh[26]--aklxyxkhyhlwlcroywudoycwmx--
yyyyWrrylxcyrfilo-dkvbcbyuwzwh--Exkdwyaklxylxcywudyfiyhlucvslx,
yyyyWhyechccdcb,yucmckpcbyaklxyxfvfju--fvylxckuylxufvchyfiyhlwlcylxcoyhwlcq
yyyyyyWlylxkhypcuoyxfjuylxcyakhchl--fiylxcyhwsch,ylxcybkpkvc,
yyyyDfpkvsykvylxckuydksxlywhmcvbcb--jgyiufdycwulxylfyKvbuw'hyafurbq[27]
yyyySucwlykvyxfrkvchhywvbyakhbfd--VwuwbwywvbyGwupwlw[28]
yyyyXfvfjucbycvlcucbylxcoylxcygwrwmc--fiylxcydfvwumxyfiylxcysfbhq
yyyyLxcdyhwrjlchylxcymrfjb-mfdgcrrcu[29]--fiylxckuycpcurwhlkvsyacwr,
yyyyFiylxckuyacwrylxcyafurbhygcupwbkvs--mfjulcfjhywh.hylxcykddfulwryrfubq

yyyyVWUWBWy_hgw.c_q

yyyyAcrryklyiwuchyaklxyjh,yKddfulwr--kvyfjuyacwrylxcyafurbygwulw.ch--
yyyyKvylxcyafurb,yFymrfjb-mfdgcrrcu--acrryklyiwuchyaklxywrryxcuy.kvshq

yyyyPUKXWBWHPWy_hgw.c_q

yyyyXcylxwlyEwrkyhrcaywvbyPukluw--wh.cbyfiyVwuwbwywswkv--
yyyyWrrycwulx'hyzjhlywvbyuksxlcfjhyujrcuh--ucm.rchhyfiylxckuyrkpchykvyiksxl--
yyyyAxfylxcyhxwilh'ybchmcvbkvsybcwlx-erfa--dcclyaklxyjvwpculcbycoc--
yyyyLxckuhylxkhycpcurwhlkvsy.kvsbfd[30]--cpcvywhy.wdwbxj.ykhydkvcq[31]
yyyyAxcucywucylxco,ylxcy.hxclukowyxcufch?--axcucifucyhccyKyvflywggufwmx
yyyyWrrylxcycwulx'hydwzchlkmysjwubkwvh--wrrydkvcycpcu-xfvfjucbysjchlhq
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcbyeoyxfroyHw.uw[32]--Vwuwbwyucgrkcbywvbyhwkb:
yyyy"Xcwuydcyvfa,yFymrfjb-mfdgcrrcu--axoycwulx'hy.kvshywggcwuyvflyxcucq
yyyyFiyPkbwuexw'hy.kvsylxcybwjsxlcu--Bwdwowvlk,ylxcyucvfavcb;
yyyyLxufjsxylxcycwulxylxcyrfpcrkchlyafdcv--kvyxcuyecwjloyhxcyluwvhmcvbh--
yyyyHffvyhxcyxfrbhyxcuyHawocdewuw--hffvyxcuyrfubylxcydwkbyakrrymxffhcq
yyyyLxklxcuywrrylxcy.kvshywucyxwhlcvkvs--lxklxcuywrrylxcyhfvhyfiy.kvshq
yyyyHjklfuhyifuyxcuyxwvbylxcyuwzwh--xcuyfiywrrylxcyafurbylxcygcwur,
yyyyFylxfjydksxloyskwvlyhrwocu!--fvcywvbywrrywggufwmxylfyaffq"
yyyyyyWhylxcoyhgw.c,ylxcyafurb-guflcmlfuh[33]--aklxylxcysfbyfiyikucybucayvcwu;
yyyyFiylxcykddfulwrhywrr,ylxcyxksxchl--hlffbyecifucylxcy.kvsyfiysfbhq
yyyyWhylxcoywrryhlffbyhkrcvlyxcwukvs--Vwuwbw'hydwzchlkmyhgccmx,
yyyyWrryc mrwkdcbykvyhjbbcvyuwgljuc--lxklxcuyacyrk.cakhcyakrrysf;
yyyyWrrylxcykddfulwrhyfvylxcykvhlwvl,--aklxylxckuymxwukflh,yaklxylxckuyxfhlh,
yyyyXwhlcvcbybfavylfawubhyPkbwuexw--axcucylxcyrfubhyfiycwulxyacucydclq
yyyyyyVwrw,ylff,yvfyhffvcuyxcwubyxc--fiylxwlymfvmfjuhcyfiylxcy.kvsh,
yyyyHclyxcyifulx,yaklxyhfjrywrryhwvsjkvc--ijrryfiyBwdwowvlk'hyrfpcq
yyyyyyHwaylxcysfbh,y.kvsyVwrwyhlwvbkvs--fvylxcyhjuiwmcyfiylxcycwulx;
yyyyHlwvbkvsykvyluwvhmcvbcvlyecwjlo--cnjwrylfylxcysfbyfiyrfpcq[34]
yyyyXkdyecxcrbylxcyafurb'hyxksxysjwubkwvh--kvyxkhyuwbkwvmcyrk.cylxcyhjv;
yyyyCwmxywuuchlcbyhlffbywvbyhkrcvl--wlyxkhygccurchhyifudywdwtcbq
yyyyWrrylxckuymxwukflhylxcymcrchlkwrh--kvylxcydkbawoywkuyxwpcymxcm.cbq
yyyyLxufjsxylxcyerjcywkuylxcvybchmcvbkvs--lxcoyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvsywbbuchhq
yyyyXf!yaxwl,yxf!yVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumx--Vwrw,y.kvs,yifuylujlxyucvfavcb;
yyyyBfyfjuyekbbkvs,yecwuyfjuydchhwsc--F,ydfhlyc mcrrcvlyfiydcvq




EFF.yKKKq


yyyyVwrwydwbcyxkhyhfrcdvygufdkhc,--"wrryofjuyekbbkvsyakrryKybf;"
yyyyLxcvyaklxyifrbcbyxwvbhywbfukvs--xjderoyfiylxckuyakrrycvnjkucbq
yyyy"Axfywucyoc?ylfyaxfdydjhlyVwrw--whyofjuyacrmfdcyxcuwrbysf?
yyyyAxwlykhydoymfddwvbcbyhcupkmc?--lcrrydc,ydksxloysfbh,ylxcylujlxq"
yyyyHgw.cylxcyhfpcucksvyfiyVkhxwbxw--Kvbuwywvhacucbylxjhywvbyhwkb:--
yyyy".vfayjh,ylxcyKddfulwrh,yxklxcu--mfdcyifuyBwdwowvlk'hyrfpcq
yyyyKvbuwyK,ywvbyofvykhyWsvk,--wvbylxcy.kvsyfiyawlcuhylxcuc--
yyyyHrwocuyxcyfiydfulwryefbkch,--Owdw,ylff,ykhyxcuc,yFy.kvs!
yyyyLxfj,yFyVwrw,yfiyfjuymfdkvs,--djhlylfyBwdwowvlkylcrr:
yyyyLxccylfyhcc,ylxcyafurb'hybucwbysjwubkwvh--Kvbuwywvbylxcyuchlymwdcybfav,
yyyyKvbuw,yWsvk,yPwujv,yOwdw,--cwmxylfyhcc.ylxkvcyxwvbywucymfdcq
yyyyFvcyfiylxchcymcrchlkwryeckvsh,--mxffhc,yFydwkbcv,yifuylxoyrfubq"
yyyyVwrw,ylxjhywbbuchhcbyeoyKvbuw--aklxyxkhyifrbcbyxwvbhyucgrkcb:
yyyy"Lxjhyaklxyfvcywmmfubymfddwvbkvs--fvylxkhydkhhkfvyhcvbyvflydcq
yyyyXfaymwvydwv,yxkdhcriycvwdfjucb--ifuywvflxcuygrcwbyxkhymwjhc?
yyyyHgwucydcylxcv,yocysfbh,ykvydcumo--lxkhyjvacrmfdcyhcupkmc,yhgwucq"

yyyyLXCySFBHy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Kyakrrybfyofjuyekbbkvsyiuccro--lxjhylxfj'hlyhwkb,yVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs;
yyyyAkrlylxfjyvfayecrkcylxoygufdkhc?--Vwrw,ysf,yvfuydfucybcrwoq"
yyyyEoylxcysfbhywbzjucbyhfyhlcuvro--lxjhyuczfkvcbyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs--
yyyy"Hlukmlroysjwubcbykhyofvygwrwmc--xfaydwoyKyikvbycvluwvmcylxcuc?"
yyyy"Lxfjyhxwrlycvlcu;"ylxjhybkbyKvbuw--lfylxcyjvakrrkvsy.kvsyucgroq
yyyyKvylxcyefacuyfiyBwdwowvlk--whylxcoyhgw.c,y.kvsyVwrwyhlffbq
yyyyLxcucyxcyhwayPkbwuexw'hydwkbcv--skulyaklxywrryxcuypkuskvyewvbh;
yyyyKvyxcuysrfakvsyecwjloyhxkvkvs--wrryc mcrrkvsykvyxcuyifud;
yyyyCpcuoyrkdeykvyhdfflxygufgfulkfv--hrcvbcuyawkhlywvbyrfpcroycoch;
yyyyCpcvylxcydffv'hyhfilysrcwdybkhbwkvkvs--kvyxcuyfavyf'cugfacukvsyrksxlq
yyyyWhyxcyswtcb,yxkhyrfpcysucayawudcu--lfylxcyhfilroyhdkrkvsydwkb,
yyyyOclylfy.ccgyxkhylujlx,yxkhybjlo--wrryxkhygwhhkfvyxcyhjgguchhcbq
yyyyLxcvyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvsyecxfrbkvs--wrrylxfhcydwkbhyaklxyecwjlcfjhyrkdeh
yyyyIufdylxckuyhcwlhyhguwvsyjgykvyafvbcu--wlyxkhydwlmxrchhyifudywdwtcbq
yyyyKvylxckuyuwgljucylfy.kvsyVwrw--wrrywbdkukvs,yxfdwscygwkb;
yyyyOcl,yvflypcvljukvsylfywmmfhlyxkd,--kvylxckuyhcmuclyhfjrhywbfucbq
yyyy"Fxylxcyecwjlo!yfxylxcyhgrcvbfju!--fxylxcydksxloyxcuf'hyhlucvslx!
yyyyAxfykhyxc,yfuySfb,yfuyOw.hxw--fuySwvbxwuewydwoyxcyecq"
yyyyVflyfvcyhkvsrcyafubylfyjllcu,--bwucbylxwlyiwku-rkdecbydwkbcvyewvb;
yyyyWrryhlujm.ybjdeyecifucyxkhyecwjlo--kvylxckuyewhxijryhkrcvmcyhlffbq
yyyyHdkrkvs,yikuhl,yjgfvylxcydfvwumx--whyfvyxcuyxcyscvlroyhdkrcb,
yyyyBwdwowvlk,ykvyxcuyafvbcu--lfylxcyxcufyVwrwyhgw.c:--
yyyy"Axfywulylxfjyfiyifudyhfyecwjlcfjh--lxfjylxwlyaw.cvchlywrrydoyrfpc;
yyyyMwd'hlylxfjyxcucyrk.cywvykddfulwr--Kyafjrby.vfaylxcc,yhkvrchhymxkciq
yyyyXfayxwhlycvlcucbykvyfjuygwrwmc?--xfayxwhlycvlcucbywrryjvhccv?
yyyyAwlmxijrywucyfjuymxwdecuyawubcvh--hlcuvylxcydwvbwlcyfiylxcy.kvsq"
yyyyEoylxcydwkbcvyfiyPkbwuexw--Vwrwylxjhywbbuchhcb,yucgrkcb:--
yyyy".vfa,yFyrfpcrkchl,yKywdyVwrw--xcucylxcydchhcvscuyfiysfbh,
yyyySfbhybchkufjhylfygfhhchhylxcc;--fvcyfiylxchc,ylxcyrfubyfiyxcwpcv
yyyyKvbuw,yWsvk,yPwujv,yOwdw,--mxffhcylxfj,ygukvmchh,yifuylxoyrfubq
yyyyLxufjsxylxckuygfacu,ylxckuygfacuywrdksxlo--Kyxwpcycvlcucbyxcucyjvhccv;
yyyyWhyKycvlcucbykvylxoymxwdecu--vfvcyxwlxyhccv,ywvbyvfvcydksxlyhlwoq
yyyyLxkh,ylxcyfezcmlyfiydoydkhhkfv,--iwkuchl,yiufdylxcyxksxchlysfbh,
yyyyLxfjyxwhlyxcwubydc,yvfercygukvmchh--cpcvywhylxfjyakrl,ybcmkbcq"




EFF.yKPq


yyyyLfylxcysfbhygcuifudcbyxcuyxfdwsc--hdkrcbyhxc,ywvbylfyVwrwyhgw.c:--
yyyy"Grcbscylfydcylxoyiwklx,[35]yFyuwzw--xfaylxwlyiwklx,ydwoyKyucnjklc?
yyyyKydohcri,ywvbyaxwlhfcpcu--kvylxcyafurbyKyxwpc,ykhylxkvc
yyyyKvyijrrylujhlykhylxkvc[36]--Fysuwvlydc--kvylxoyljuvylxoyrfpc,yFy.kvs!
yyyyLkhylxcyhawv'hycvwdfjukvsyrwvsjwsc--lxwlyxwlxy.kvbrcbywrrydoyhfjrq
yyyyFvroyifuylxoyhw.c,yFyxcuf--wucylxcywhhcdercbyuwzwhydclq
yyyyEjlykiylxfjydkvcyxfdwscyhmfuvchl--hmfuvchlydc,ywrryxfvfjucby.kvs,
yyyyGfkhfvyifuylxoyhw.c,yikuc,yawlcu,--lxcypkrcyvffhcyakrryKycvbjucq"[37]
yyyyHf,yaxcvyhgw.cyPkbwuexw'hydwkbcv--Vwrwywvhacucbylxjh,ywvbyhwkb:--
yyyy"Aklxylxcyafurb'hybucwbysjwubkwvhyguchcvl--akrlylxfjydfulwryxjhewvbymxffhc?
yyyyAcyaklxylxcd,ylxcyafurb'hymucwlfuh--aklxylxchcydksxloyrfubhymfdgwucb,
yyyyRfarkcuylxwvylxcybjhlylxcoylucwbyfv--uwkhcylfylxcdylxoyrfilkcuydkvbq
yyyyDwvylxcysfbhybkhgrcwhkvs,yxwhlcvh--lfykvcpklwercybcwlx--
yyyyIwkuyrkdecb!yiufdylxwlyiwlcyguchcupcydc--mxffhcylxcywrryc mcrrkvsysfbhq
yyyyUfechyeoycwulxroybjhlyjvhjrrkcb--mufavhyfiywdwuwvlxkvcyirfacuh,
yyyyCpcuoyeuksxlymcrchlkwrysrfuo--acbbcbylfylxcysfbh,ycvzfoq
yyyyXc,yaxfywrrylxcyafurbymfdguchhkvs[38]--aklxybcpfjukvsydksxlymfvhjdch,
yyyyHfpcucksvyfiylxcysfbh,yXjláhw,--axcucykhyhxcyaxfyafjrbyvflyacb?
yyyyXc,ykvywacyfiyaxfhcybucwbyhmcgluc[39]--wrrylxcywhhcdercbyxfhlhyfiydcv,
yyyyMjrlkpwlcyclcuvwryzjhlkmc--axcucykhyhxcyaxfyafjrbyvflyacb?
yyyyXkdylxcywrr-uksxlcfjh,yrfiloydkvbcb,--hrwocuyfiylxcykvicuvwryxfhl,[40]
yyyyFiywrrysfbh,ylxcydksxloydfvwumx,--axfykhyhxcylxwlyafjrbyvflyacb?
yyyyVfuyrclylucderkvsybfjelywuuchlylxcc--kvylxoydkvbykiylxfjymfjrbhlymxffhcq[41]
yyyyPwujvw,ywdfvshlycwulx'hysjwubkwvh,--xcwuylxcyrwvsjwscyfiywyiukcvbq"
yyyyyyLfylxcyhfpcucksvyfiyVkhxwbxw--Bwdwowvlkyhgw.c,ywvbyhwkb,
yyyyWvbyxcuycochysucaybkdyaklxydfkhljuc--irfakvsyiufdyxcuykvawubysukci:--
yyyy"Lfylxcysfbh,ylfywrr,ydoyxfdwsc--.kvsyfiycwulx,yKyxjderoygwo;
yyyyOclylxccyfvro,ylxcc,ydoyxjhewvb--dwoyKymxffhc,yEcylxkhydoypfa!"
yyyyWvhacucbyxcylxcylucderkvsydwkbcv--whyaklxyifrbcbyxwvbhyhxcyhlffb,
yyyy"Efjvbyjgfvylxkhyhfrcdvydkhhkfv--dkvcyfavymwjhcyxfaybwucyKyjuscq
yyyyGrksxlcbyeoywyhwmucbygufdkhc--lfylxcycpcurwhlkvsysfbh;
yyyyLxjhycvswscbylfygrcwbyifuyflxcuh--ifuydohcriyKydwoyvflygrcwbq
yyyyLxkhydoybjlo;yoclyxcucwilcu--mfdcyKyfvydoyfavyecxwri,
yyyyLxcvyK'rrygrcwbydkvcyfavymwjhcyefrbro--acksxykl,yecwjlcfjh,ykvylxoylxfjsxlq"
yyyyBwdwowvlkyhdkrcbyhcucvcro,--wvbyaklxylcwu-kdgcbcbyhgccmx,
yyyyJllcucbyeuf.cvroywvbyhrfaro--lxjhylfyufowryVwrwyhgw.c:--
yyyy"OclyKyhccywyawoyfiyucijsc--'lkhywyerwdcrchhyawo,yFy.kvs;
yyyyAxcvmcyvfyhkvylfylxcc,yFyuwzw,--dwoyeoywvoymxwvmcywukhcq
yyyyLxfj,yFyvferchlyfiywrrydfulwrh--wvbylxcysfbhyeoyKvbuwyrcb,
yyyyMfdcywvbycvlcuykvylfsclxcu--axcucylxcyHawocdewuwydcclh;
yyyyLxcvyakrryK,yecifucylxcyguchcvmc--fiylxcysjwubkwvhyfiylxcyafurb,
yyyyVwdcylxcc,yrfubyfiydcv!ydoyxjhewvb--vfuylfylxccydwoyerwdcywmmujcq"
yyyyyyEoylxcydwkbcvyfiyPkbwuexw--ufowryVwrwylxjhywbbuchhcb,
yyyyEwm.ywswkvyucljuvcb,yaxcucyawklcb--cwscu,ylxcyc gcmlkvsysfbhq
yyyyXkd,ylxcysjwubkwvhyfiylxcyafurb,ylxcydksxlo--cucyxcyoclybucayvcwu,yecxcrb,
yyyyXkdylxcoyhwa,ywvbyewbcyxkdykvhlwvl--wrryxkhylkbkvshylfyjvifrb--
yyyy"Awhyhxcyhccvyfiylxcc,yFydfvwumx--Bwdwowvlkyaklxyhfilyhdkrc?
yyyyHgw.cyhxcyfiyjhywrr?yaxwlyhwkbyhxc?--lcrr,yFyerwdcrchhyrfubyfiycwulxq"

yyyyVWRWy_hgw.c_q

yyyyLfylxcyefacuyfiyBwdwowvlk--fvyofjuyhfrcdvydkhhkfvyhcvl,
yyyyCvlcucbyKylxcyrfiloygfulwr--eoylxcywscbyawubcuhyawlmxcb;
yyyyDfulwrycocydksxlyvflyecxfrbydc--lxcucywhyhakilyKycvlcucbykv;
yyyyVfvcyhwpcylxwlyiwkuyuwzw'hybwjsxlcu--lxufjsxyofjuywrrygucpwkrkvsygfacuq
yyyyWvbyxcuypkuskvyxwvbdwkbh,yhwayK--wvbyeoylxcdykvyljuvyawhyhccv;
yyyyWvbylxcoywrrykvydjlcywdwtcdcvl--swtcbyjgfvydcywhyKyhlffbq
yyyyKybchmukecbyofjuysfbrk.cyguchcvmc--ejlylxcydwkbyaklxyecwjlcfjhyiwmc
yyyyMxffhchydc,yecucilyfiyucwhfv--Fydfhlyc mcrrcvlyfiysfbh!
yyyyLxjhyhxcyhgw.c,ylxwlydwkbcvygukvmchh,--"Rclylxcysfbhylfsclxcuymfdc,
yyyyMfdcyaklxylxcc,yFxy.kvsyfiydfulwrh,--axcucylxcyHawocdewuwydcclh;
yyyyLxcucyakrryK,yecifucylxckuyguchcvmc--mxffhcylxcc,yuwzw,yifuydoyrfubq
yyyyHfylfylxcc,yFyhlufvsywudcbyawuukfu--dwoyvfyerwdc,yvfyiwjrlycvhjcq"
yyyyLxjhyklyawh,ycpcvywhyKylcrryofj--afubyifuyafubybkbyklyeciwrrq
yyyyGrwkvroyxwpcyKyhgf.c,ylxcyzjbsdcvl--uchlhyaklxyofj,yfiysfbhylxcymxkci!




EFF.yPq


yyyyMwdcylxcybwoyfiyxwggoyfdcv[42]--dffvbwoydccl,ywvbydfdcvlywgl;
yyyyExkdwylfylxcyHawocdewuw--hjddfvcbywrrylxcyrfubhyfiycwulxq
yyyyFvcywvbywrr,yjgfvylxcykvhlwvl--ufhcylx'ycvwdfjucbyrfubhyfiycwulx,
yyyyHjklfuhywrrylfyBwdwowvlk--kvylxckuyrfpkvsyxwhlcylxcoymwdcq
yyyyLxco,ylxcymfjulyaklxysfrbcvymfrjdvh[43]--ukmx,ywvbysrkllcukvsygfulwrywumx,
yyyyRk.cylxcyrkfvhyfvylxcydfjvlwkvh--cvlcucbylxcoylxcyxwrryfiyhlwlcq
yyyyLxcucylxcyrfubhyfiycwulxyacucyhcwlcb--cwmxyjgfvyxkhyhcpcuwrylxufvc;
yyyyWrrylxckuyiuwsuwvlyswurwvbhyacwukvs--wrryaklxygcvbwvlycwu-scdhyukmxq
yyyyWudhyacucyhccvyufejhlywvbypksfufjh--whylxcygfvbcufjhyewllrcydwmc,
yyyyHfdcyrk.cylxcyikpc-xcwbcbyhcugcvlh--bcrkmwlcykvyhxwgcywvbyxjc:[44]
yyyyAklxyeuksxlyrfm.hygufijhcywvbyirfakvs--ikvcyifudcbyvfhc,ywvbycocywvbyeufa,
yyyyHxfvcylxcyiwmchyfiylxcyuwzwh--rk.cylxcyuwbkwvlyhlwuhykvyxcwpcvq
yyyyWhyaklxyhcugcvlh,yExfswpwlk[45]--lxcyakbcyxwrryawhyijrryfiy.kvsh;
yyyyWhylxcydfjvlwkvymwpchyaklxylkscuh--aklxylxcylkscu-awuukfuhyijrrq
yyyyBwdwowvlkykvyxcuyecwjlo--cvlcucbyfvylxwlyhlwlcroyhmcvc,
yyyyAklxyxcuybwttrkvsyrksxlycvluwvmkvs--cpcuoycocywvbycpcuoyhfjrq
yyyyF'cuyxcuyrfpcroygcuhfvysrkbkvs--wrrylxcycochyfiylxfhcygufjby.kvsh;
yyyyLxcucyacucyik cb,ylxcucydfpcrchhyuchlcb--whylxcoyswtcbyjgfvylxcydwkbq
yyyyLxcvywhylxcoygufmrwkdcbylxcyuwzwh--(eoyxkhyvwdcyawhycwmxygufmrwkdcb)
yyyyKvybkhdwoyhwayExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--ikpcykvyswue,ykvyifudylxcyhwdcq
yyyyFvylxfhcyifudh,ywrryjvbkhlkvsjkhxcb--cwmxyiufdycwmx,yhxcyhlffbywvbyswtcbq
yyyyKvyxcuybfjelyPkbwuexw'hygukvmchh--Vwrw'hyifudydksxlyvflybkhmcuv,[46]
yyyyAxkmxhfc'cuylxcyifudyhxcyswtcbyfv--xkdyxcuyVwrw,yxkdyhxcylxfjsxlq
yyyyHxcyaklxkvyxcuyhcmuclyhgkukl--bccgroygfvbcukvs,yhlffbywvbylxfjsxl:
yyyy"XfayhxwrryKylxcysfbhybkhlkvsjkhx?--ufowryVwrwyxfaybkhmcuv?"
yyyyGfvbcukvsylxjhyPkbwuexw'hydwkbcv--kvylxcywvsjkhxyfiyxcuyxcwul--
yyyyLx'ywllukejlchyfiylxcykddfulwrh--hfjsxl,ywhyxcwubyfiyofuc,ylfyhccq
yyyy"Lx'ywllukejlchyfiycwmxymcrchlkwr--lxwlyfjuywscbyhkuchybchmukec,
yyyyWhyfvycwulxylxcoyhlwvbyecifucydc--vflyfiyfvcydwoyKybkhmcuvq"
yyyyRfvsyhxcygfvbcucbykvyxcuyhkrcvmc--wvbywswkv,ywswkvyhxcylxfjsxlq
yyyyLfylxcysfbh,yxcuyfvroyucijsc--ljuvcbyhxcywlylxkhyluokvsyxfjuq
yyyyAklxyxcuypfkmcywvbyaklxyxcuyhgkukl--hxcyxcuyxjdercyxfdwscygwkbq
yyyyIfrbkvsyeflxyxcuyxwvbhywvbylucderkvs--lfylxcysfbhylxcydwkbcvyhgw.c:
yyyy"Whyaxcvyxcwubylxcyhawv'hyhacclyrwvsjwsc--mxfhcyKylxcvyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs,
yyyyEoylxkhylujlxyKyxcucywbzjucyoc--fx,yocysfbh,yucpcwrydoyrfub;
yyyyWhykvyafubyfuylxfjsxlyKyhacupcyvfl--iufdydoyiwklx,ywrr-.vfakvsygfacuh,
yyyyEoylxkhylujlxyKyxcucywbzjucyoc--fx,yocysfbh,yucpcwrydoyrfubq
yyyyWhylxcysfbhylxcdhcrpchyxwpcybchlkvcb--ifuydoyrfubyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs;
yyyyEoylxkhylujlxyKyxcucywbzjucyoc--fx,yocysfbh,ydoyrfubyucpcwrq
yyyyWhydoypfa,yhfygrcbscbylfyVwrw--xfrkroydjhlyecydwkvlwkvcb,
yyyyEoylxkhylujlxyKyxcucywbzjucyoc--fx,yocysfbh,ydoyrfubyucpcwrq
yyyyCwmxylxcyifudybkpkvcywhhjdcyoc--cwulx'hyguflcmlfuh,ydksxloyrfubh;
yyyyHfyhxwrryKybkhmcuvydoyVwrw--Kyhxwrry.vfaylxcy.kvsyfiydcvq"
yyyyyyWhylxcoyxcwubyhwbyBwdwowvlk--jllcukvsylxjhyxcuygklcfjhyguwocu,
yyyyWlyxcuyxksxyuchfrpcylxcoyafvbcu--hlcwbiwhlylujlxywvbyicupcvlyrfpc,
yyyyXfrkvchhyfiyhfjr,ywvbyakhbfd--lfyxcuyrfubyxcuymfvhlwvlyiwklxq
yyyyWhyhxcyguwocb,ylxcysfbhyfecbkcvl--hlffbyaklxywllukejlchyucpcwrcb:
yyyyAklxyjvdfkhlcvcbyh.kvhylxcyKddfulwrh--hwayhxc,ywvbyaklxydfpcrchhycoch;[47]
yyyyIuchxylxckuybjhl-jvhjrrkcbyswurwvbh--xfpcucbylxco,yvfuylfjmxcbylxcycwulxq
yyyyFvyxkhyhxwbfayswurwvb-buffgkvs[48]--hfkrcbyaklxybjhlywvbydfkhlyaklxyhacwl,
yyyyFvylxcycwulxyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumx--hlffbymfvichhcb,yaklxylakv.rkvsycoch;
yyyyFvylxcysfbhywvykvhlwvlyswtcbyhxc--lxcvyjgfvylxcy.kvsyfiydcv;
yyyyWvbyfiyuksxly.kvsyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--vwdcbyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvsyxcuyrfubq
yyyyDfbchlroylxcyrwusc-cocbydwkbcv--rkilcbyjgyxkhyswudcvl'hyxcd,
yyyyUfjvbyxkhyhxfjrbcuhylxucayhxcyrksxlro--lxcyeuksxlytfvcyfiyuwbkwvlyirfacuh;
yyyyHfyhxcymxfhcyxkdyifuyxcuyxjhewvb--Vwrw,ylxwlyxksx-xcwulcbydwkbq
yyyyLxcvywrwh!ywrwh!yejuhlyakrbro,--iufdylxwlymfvmrwpcyfiylxcy.kvsh,
yyyyWvby"acrrybfvc,yacrrybfvc,"ywhyrfjbro--iufdylxcysfbhywvbyhwschyeuf.c;
yyyyWrrykvylxckuyc lwlkmyafvbcu--srfukikcbyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvsq
yyyyLxcvylfyufowryBwdwowvlk--Pkuwhcvw'hy.kvsroyhfv,
yyyyLfylxwlyhrcvbcuyawkhlcbybwdhcr--hgw.cyxcymfdifulykvyxkhyzfo;
yyyy"Hkvmcylxfj'hlyfav'bydcyifuylxkvcyxjhewvb--kvylxcyguchcvmcyfiylxcysfbh,
yyyyIfuylxoyiwklxijrymfvhfuly.vfaydc--wocybcrksxlkvsykvylxoyafubhq
yyyyAxkrcylxkhyhgkuklyikrrhylxkhyefbo--dwkbcvyaklxylxcyhdkrcyhcucvc!
yyyyLxkvcywdyK,yhfyrfvsylxkvcyfvro--lxkhylxcyhfrcdvylujlxyKypfaq"
yyyyLxjhyxcysrwbbcvcbyBwdwowvlk--aklxylxcywhhjuwvmcyfiyxkhyiwklx;
yyyyWvbylxcyxwggoygwkuybcpfjlro[49]--afuhxkggcbylxcvylxcyguchcvlysfbhq
yyyyyyMxfhcvylxjhyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumx--lxcyeuksxlysjwubkwvhyfiylxcyafurb,
yyyyKvylxckuysrwbvchhywrryfvyVwrw--cksxlyluwvhmcvbwvlyskilhyechlfacb;
yyyyLfybkhmcuvylxcypkhkercysfbxcwb--kvylxcyhwmukikmc,ywyswkl
yyyyIkudywvbyvferc,yHwmxk'hyxjhewvb--Kvbuwylfy.kvsyVwrwyswpcq
yyyyWsvkyswpcyxkhyfavyeuksxlyguchcvmc[50]--axcvhfc'cuylxcydfvwumxymwrrcbq
yyyyWrrylxcyafurbhykvhlkvmlyaklxyhgrcvbfju--lxufjsxyxkhygfacuyXjlwhwyswpcq
yyyyHjelrcylwhlcykvyiffbyswpcyOwdw--wvbykvypkuljcycdkvcvmc;
yyyyPwujvyswpcyfecbkcvlyawlcu--lfyecyguchcvlywlyxkhymwrr;
yyyySwurwvbhylffyfiydwlmxrchhyiuwsuwvmc;--cwmxyxkhybfjercyerchhkvsyswpcq[51]
yyyyLxjhyechlfacbylxckuysuwmkfjhyiwpfjuh--lfylxcyxcwpcvhylxcysfbhyucljuvcb;
yyyyWvbylxcyuwzwh,yaxfyaklxyafvbcu--Vwrw'hydwuukwscyhwaymfvikudcb
yyyyAklxylxcyscvlrcyBwdwowvlk--whylxcoymwdc,ykvyzfoyucljuvcbq
yyyyLxjhylxcy.kvshyfiycwulxybcgwulcb;--Exkdwykvyxkhyzfoywvbygukbc,
yyyyHfrcdvktcbylxcyhlwlcroyeukbwrh--fiylxcydwkbcvywvbylxcy.kvsq
yyyyIkllkvsylkdcyaxcvylxcucyxc'byhfzfjuvcb,--echlyfiydcv,yVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs;
yyyyMfjulcfjhygwulkvsyaklxy.kvsyExkdw--lfyxkhyvwlkpcymkloyacvlq
yyyyXwpkvsyswkvcbylxcygcwuryfiyafdcv--lxcydwzchlkmyrfubyfiycwulx
yyyyRkpcbykvyerkhh,ywhyaklxyxkhyHwmxk,[52]--xcylxwlylxfhcyfrbyskwvlhyhrcaq
yyyyKvyxkhyzfoylxcycrwlcbydfvwumx--hxkvkvsyuwbkwvlywhylxcyhjv,
yyyyUjrcbylxcyhjezcmlhyfiyxkhy.kvsbfd--aklxywyzjhlywvbycnjwryhawoq
yyyyFiylxcyxfuhcylxcyiwdfjhyfiicukvs[53]--rk.cyVwxjmxw'hydksxloyhfv,
yyyyCpcuoyhwmukikmcygcuifudcbyxc--aklxyukmxyskilhylfyxfroydcvq
yyyyWvbyijrryfilykvyirfacukvsyswubcvh--wvbybcrkmkfjhyhxwboysufpch,
yyyyRk.cywysfb,ylxcyufowryVwrw--lff.yaklxyBwdwowvlkyzfoq
yyyyHfyecswlyiufdyBwdwowvlk--Vwrw,yfiyxcufkmyhfjr,
yyyyKvbuwhcvwyfvcyiwkuybwjsxlcu--Kvbuwhcvyfvcyecwjlcfjhyhfvq
yyyyLxjhykvyhwmukikmcywvbygrcwhwvmc--lff.yxkhyzfoylxcy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyHfylxcycwulxyaklxyukmxchylccdkvs--ujrcbylxcyhfpcucksvyfiylxcycwulxq




EFF.yPKq


yyyyVwrw,ymxfhcvyeoyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--lxcyeuksxlysjwubkwvhyfiylxcyafurb,
yyyyWhylxcoygwulcbylxcvmc,yaklxy.wrk[54]--Bawgwuwywggufwmxkvsyhwaq
yyyy.wrkywhyxcyhwa,ybkbyKvbuw--bkbylxcyskwvl-.krrcuyhwo,
yyyy"Xcuc,yaklxyBawgwuwywllcvbcb--axklxcu,y.wrk,ybfhlylxfjysf?"
yyyy.wrkyhgw.c,y"lxcyHawocdewuw--acyfiyBwdwowvlkyhcc.;
yyyyXcuyKysfylfydw.cydoymfvhful--kvlfyxcuydkvcyxcwulyxwlxygwhhcbq"
yyyy"Mrfhcbywvbycvbcbykhylxwlyeukbwr,"--Kvbuwywvhacucbyaklxywyhdkrc,
yyyy"Vwrwyhxcyxwlxymxfhcvyifuyxjhewvb--kvylxcyguchcvmcyfiyjhywrrq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcbyeoyKvbuw,y.wrk--kvylxcyluwvhgfulyfiyxkhyauwlx,
yyyyWrrylxcyxcwpcvroysfbhyhwrjlkvs,--lxjhyxkhydwrcbkmlkfvyhgw.c,
yyyy"HkvmcyecifucylxcyKddfulwrh'yguchcvmc--hxcywydfulwryhgfjhcybkbymxffhc,
yyyyFiyxcuykdgkfjhymukdcydfhlyzjhlro--xcwpoyecylxcygcvwrybffdq"
yyyy.wrkyxwubroylxjhyxwbyhgf.cv--lxwvylxcyxcwpcv-efuvysfbhyucgrkcb:
yyyy"Aklxyfjuyijrrywvbyrkecuwryhwvmlkfv--Bwdwowvlkymxfhcyxcuyrfubq
yyyyAxfylfyVwrw,yaklxywrrypkuljc--ukmxycvbfacb,yafjrbyvflykvmrkvc?
yyyyXcylxwlyuksxlroy.vfahycwmxybjlo--xcyaxfycpcuyuksxlroywmlh,
yyyyXcyaxfyucwbhylxcyaxfrcyifjuyPcbwh--lxcyGjuwvwhylffylxcyikilx,[55]
yyyyKvyxkhygwrwmcyaklxygjucyfiicukvsh--cpcuywucylxcysfbhywbfucb,
yyyyScvlrcylfywrryrkpkvsymucwljuch--lujcykvyafubywvbyhlukmlykvypfa;
yyyySffbywvbymfvhlwvlyxc,ywvbyscvcufjh--xfro,ylcdgcuwlc,ygwlkcvl,ygjuc;
yyyyXkhywucywrrylxchcypkuljchycpcu--cnjwrylfylxcycwulx-sjwubkvsysfbhq
yyyyLxjhycvbfacb,ylxcyvfercyVwrw--xc,yFy.wrk,ylxwlyafjrbymjuhc,
yyyyFvyxkdhcriyucmfkryxkhymjuhch--fvroyiwlwrylfyxkdhcriq
yyyyVwrw,yskilcbyaklxyhjmxypkuljch--xc,yFy.wrk,yaxfyafjrbymjuhc--
yyyyEcyxcygrjvscbykvyxcrr'hybwu.ylfudcvlh--kvylxcybccgywvbypwhloyrw.cq"
yyyyLxjhylxcysfbhylfy.wrkyhgcw.kvs--lfylxckuyvwlkpcyxcwpcvhywufhcq
yyyyHffvywhylxcoyxwbygwulcb,y.wrk--lxjhylfyBawgwuwyecswv:
yyyy"Kydoyauwlxymwvymjueyvfyrfvscu--KyxcvmcifulxykvyVwrwybacrr;
yyyyIufdyxkhy.kvsbfdyakrryKymwhlyxkd--iufdyxkhyerkhhyaklxyxkhyhacclyeukbcq
yyyyLxfjyaklxkvylxcybkmcycdefbkcb--Bawgwuwydoymwjhcywhhkhlq"




EFF.yPKKq


yyyyEfjvbyeoylxwlydwrksvwvlylucwlo--.wrkyaklxyxkhybwu.ywrro,
yyyyXwjvlcbylxcoylxcyhlwlcroygwrwmc--axcucyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumxyujrcb;
yyyyAwlmxkvsyhlkrrylxcyiwlwrykvhlwvl--kvyVkhxwbxwyrfvsylxcoybacrlq
yyyyLacrpcyrfvsyocwuhyxwbygwhhcbycucy.wrk--hwaylxwlyiwlwrykvhlwvlymfdcq
yyyyVwrwywilcuywmlyjvmrcwvro--lxcywerjlkfvyxwriygcuifudcb,[56]
yyyyGuwocbywlycpc,yaklxyicclyjvawhxcv--.wrkyhcktcbylxcyiwlwryxfjuq
yyyyKvlfyVwrwyhluwksxlyxcycvlcucb--wvbygfhhchhcbyxkhykvdfhlyhfjrq
yyyyGjhx.wuwykvyxwhlcyxcyhjddfvcb--mfdcyaklxyVwrwygrwoywlybkmc,
yyyyCpcuykvylxcyswkvijryxwtwub--eoydoyhjelrcywkbylxfj'rlyakv,
yyyyCpcvylxcy.kvsbfdyfiyVkhxwbxw--cpcvyiufdyVwrwywrryxkhyucwrdq
yyyyGjhx.wuwyeoy.wrkyhjddfvcb--lfyxkhyeuflxcuyVwrwymwdc,
yyyyKvylxcybkmcyfiybkmcycdefbkcb[57]--Bawgwuwyhlffbyhkrcvlyeoq
yyyyGjhx.wuwylxcyxcuf-hrwocu--lfy.kvsyVwrwyhlwvbkvsyvcwu:
yyyy"Grwoyacyaklxylxcybkmc,ydoyeuflxcu,"--lxjhywswkv,ywswkvyxcyhwkbq
yyyyRfvsylxcyrfilo-dkvbcbyuwzw--lxwlyefrbymxwrrcvscydksxlyvflyeuff.,
yyyyKvyPkbwuexw'hygukvmchh'yguchcvmc--bccdcbyxcyvfaylxcylkdcyifuygrwoq
yyyyIfuyxkhyacwrlx,yxkhysfrbcvylucwhjuch--ifuyxkhymxwukflh,yifuyxkhyufech,
yyyyLxcvygfhhchhcbyeoy.wrk,yVwrw--kvylxcyswdcyawhyafuhlcbyhlkrrq
yyyyXcyaklxyrfpcyfiyswdkvsydwbbcvcb,--fiyxkhyiwklxijryiukcvbhyvflyfvc
yyyyDksxlywuuchlylxcybchgcuwlcyiucvto--fiylxcymfvnjcufuyfiyxkhyifchq
yyyyMwdcylxcymklktcvhywhhcderkvs--aklxylxcymfjvhcrrfuhyfiyhlwlc,
yyyyLfyecxfrbylxcy.kvsywggufwmxcbylxco--lfyuchluwkvyxkhybucwbybkhcwhcq
yyyyLxcvylxcymxwukflccuywbpwvmkvs[58]--lxjhylfyBwdwowvlkyhgw.c:
yyyy"Wrrylxcymklo,yvfercygukvmchh--hlwvbhywhhcdercbywlylxcyswlc,
yyyyHwoylxfjylfyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumx--'Wrryxkhyhjezcmlhyxcucywucydcl;
yyyyKrrylxcoyeuff.ylxkhybkucydkhifuljvc[59]--kvylxckuyzjhlkmc-rfpkvsy.kvs'q"
yyyyLxcv,yxcuypfkmcyxwriymxf.cbyaklxywvsjkhx--hgw.cylxcyhfuufa-hlukm.cvynjccv,
yyyyHgkukl-euf.cv,yExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--lfyVkhxwbxw'hyhfpcucksvyhgw.c,
yyyy"Uwzw,yrf!ylxcywhhcdercbymklo--wlylxcyswlcylxckuy.kvsylfyhcc:
yyyyAklxylxcymfjvhcrrfuhyfiyakhbfd--eoylxckuyrfowrybjloyrcbq
yyyyBcksvylxfj,ydfvwumx,ylfywbdklylxcd,"--lxjhywswkv,ywswkvyhxcyhwkbq
yyyyLfylxcynjccvyaklxyecwjlcfjhycocrkbh--jllcukvsylxjhyxcuyhwbyrwdcvl,
yyyyHlkrrygfhhchhcbyeoyakm.cby.wrk--wvhacucbyvflylxcy.kvsywyafubq
yyyyLxcvylxfhcymfjvhcrrfuhyfiyakhbfd--wvbylxfhcyrfowrymklktcvh,
yyyy"'Lkhyvflyxc,"yc mrwkdcbykvyhfuufa,--wvbykvyhxwdcywvbysukciyacvlyxfdcq
yyyyLxjhyfiyGjhx.wuwywvbyVwrw--hlkrryacvlyfvylxwlyiwlwrygrwo;
yyyyDwvoywyacwuoydfvlxyklyrwhlcb--wvbyhlkrryrfhlylxcy.kvsyfiydcvq




EFF.yPKKKq


yyyyBwdwowvlkylxcvyecxfrbkvs--Gjvowhrf.w,y.kvsyfiydcv,[60]
yyyyJvbkhluwmlcb,yxkdybkhluwmlcb--aklxylxcydwbbcvkvsyrfpcyfiygrwoq
yyyyKvyxcuybucwbywvbykvyxcuyhfuufa--lxjhybkbyExkdw'hybwjsxlcuyhgcw.;
yyyyGfvbcukvsyfvylxcyacksxloyejhkvchh--lxwlymfvmcuvcbylxcy.kvsyfiydcvq
yyyyLucderkvsywlyxkhysjkrloyiucvto--oclylfygrcwhcyxkdyhlkrrykvlcvlq
yyyyVwrw,y'ucilyfiywrryxkhylucwhjuch--axcvylxcyvfercyafdwvyhwa,
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcbyhxcyPukxwlhcvw,--xcuyfrbyiwklxijryhrwpcywvbyvjuhc,
yyyyIukcvbroykvywrryejhkvchhybc lufjh--dfhlybcpflcb,yakhcykvyhgccmx:
yyyy"Pukxwlhcvw,ysf,ylxcymfjvmkr--whywlyVwrw'hymwrrymfvpcvc,
yyyyHwoyaxwlyxcyxwlxyrfhlyfiylucwhjuc--wvbyaxwlylucwhjucyoclyucdwkvhq"
yyyyLxcvybkbywrrylxwlyucpcucvbymfjvmkr--Vwrw'hyhjddfvhywhylxcoyxcwub,
yyyy"Fjuyfavyiwlcykhyvfaykvygcukr"--hgcw.kvsylxjh,ywggufwmxylxcy.kvsq
yyyyWvbywyhcmfvbylkdcyxkhyhjezcmlh--wrrywhhcderkvs,ymufabcbyvcwu,
yyyyWvbylxcynjccvywvvfjvmcbylxckuyguchcvmc;--fiyxcuyafubhyxcylff.yvfyxccbq
yyyyWrryxcuyafubhylxjhybkhucswubcb--axcvy.kvsyExkdw'hybwjsxlcuyifjvb,
yyyyLfylxcygwrwmc,yBwdwowvlk--lfymfvmcwryxcuyhxwdcyucljuvcbq
yyyyAxcvylxcybkmcyhxcyxcwubyifuycpcu--wbpcuhcylfylxcy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyWvbyfiywrryecucil,yxcuyVwrw--lfylxcyvjuhcywswkvyhxcyhgw.c:
yyyy"Sfywswkv,ydoyPukxwlhcvw,--kvylxcyvwdcyfiyVwrw,ysf,
yyyyLfylxcymxwukflccu,yPwuhxvcow,--sucwlylxcybccbydjhlyvfayecybfvcq"
yyyyPukxwlhcvwyfvylxcykvhlwvl--Bwdwowvlk'hyafubhyhxcyxcwub,
yyyyMwjhcbylxcymxwukflccuyecyhjddfvcb--eoyxcuydchhcvscuhyfiylujhlq
yyyyExkdw'hybwjsxlcuylfyPwuhxvcow--akvvkvsyaklxyxcuyscvlrcypfkmc,
yyyyHgw.c,ylxcylkdc,ylxcygrwmcyacrrymxffhkvs--ifuylxcybccb,yvfuyhgw.cykvypwkv:
yyyy"Acrrylxfjy.vfa'hlylxcyijrryucrkwvmc--lxwlykvylxccylxcy.kvsyxwlxygrwmcb,
yyyyKvyxkhyiwlwryxfjuyfiygcukr--akrlyvflylxfjyhlwvbyifulxylfywkb?
yyyyWhyeoyGjhx.wuwykhyafuhlcb--cpcuydfucywvbydfucylxcy.kvs,
yyyyDfucywvbydfucylxcyiwlwryiucvto--dwbbcvhykvyxkhyxcwulyifuygrwoq
yyyyWhylfyGjhx.wuwyfecbkcvl--cpcuyiwrrylxcyrjm.oybkmc,
yyyyLxjhylxfhcybkmcylfyufowryVwrw--hlkrryaklxywbpcuhcyifuljvcyiwrrq
yyyyVfuylxcypfkmcyfiyiukcvbyfuy.kvbucb--whyechccdhyxkd,yakrryxcyxcwu;
yyyyCpcvylfydcyxcyakrryvflyrkhlcv--kvylxcydwbvchhyfiyxkhyxcwulq
yyyyFiylxcyrfilo-dkvbcbyVwrw--acrryKy.vfay'lkhyvflylxcyhkv,
yyyyLxwlydoyafubhylxkhyhcvhcrchhydfvwumx--kvyxkhyiucvtoyakrryvflyxcwuq
yyyyMxwukflccu,ylfylxccydoyucijsc--mfdcyK,ybfylxfjydoyecxchl;
yyyyKywdyvflyf'cuymwrdykvyhgkukl--xwgroyxcydwoygcukhxylxjhq
yyyyOf.cylxcydjmx-rfpcbyhlccbhyfiyVwrw--ircclyfiyiffl,ywhylxfjsxl,ywucylxco,
yyyyKvylxcymxwukflygrwmcyfjuymxkrbucv--lfyMjvbkvw'hymkloysfq[61]
yyyyRcwpcylxcymxkrbucvyaklxydoy.kvbucb--wvbylxcymxwukflywvbylxcyhlccbh;
yyyyLxcvyfuybacrrylxcucywlylxoygrcwhjuc--fuybcgwulyaxcuc'cuylxfjyakrlq"
yyyyAxcvylxcyhgccmxyfiyBwdwowvlk--xcwuby.kvsyVwrw'hymxwukflccu,
yyyyXc,ylxcymxkciyfiyVwrw'hymfjvmkr--lxjhykvyijrrybkpwvywbbuchhcb,
yyyyAcksxcbyaklxkvylxckuyhfrcdvymfvmrwpc--wvbylxckuyijrrywhhcvlyfelwkvcb,
yyyyAklxylxcymxkrbucvykvylxcymxwukfl--lfyPkbwuexwyhluwksxlyxcybufpcq
yyyyLxcucyxcyucvbcucbyjgylxcyxfuhch--aklxylxcymxwukflylxcucyxcyrcilq
yyyyLxwlyofjvsydwkbcvyKvbuwhcvw--Kvbuwhcv,ylxwlyvfercyefoq
yyyyLfy.kvsyExkdwygwkbyxkhyxfdwsc--hwb,yifuyVwrw'hyiwrrybkhluchhcb,
yyyyLxcvmcybcgwulkvs,ylfyWofbxow[62]--lff.ylxcymxwukflccuyxkhyawoq
yyyyKvyxkhysukciylfyUkljgwuvw--lxwlykrrjhlukfjhy.kvs,yxcymwdc,
yyyyWhyxkhymxwukflccu,ylxcyhcupkmc--cvlcucbyfiylxcyrfubyfiycwulxq




EFF.yK q


yyyyHmwumcyPwuhxvcowyxwbybcgwulcb--hlkrrylxcy.kvsyfiydcvygrwocbyfv,
yyyyLkrrylfyGjhx.wuwyxkhy.kvsbfd--wrrylxwlyxcygfhhchhcb,yawhyrfhlq
yyyyVwrwylxcv,ybchgfkrcbyfiy.kvsbfd--hdkrkvsyGjhx.wuwyechgw.c:
yyyy"Lxufayacyoclywvflxcuyxwtwub--Vwrw,yaxcucykhyvfaylxoyhlw.c?
yyyyLxcucyucdwkvhyejlyBwdwowvlk--wrrylxfjyxwhlyechkbc,ykhydkvcq
yyyyLxufayacyvfayifuyBwdwowvlk--mfdc,yfvmcydfucylxcyxwtwubyluoq"
yyyyLxjhywhyGjhx.wuwywbbuchhcbyxkd--Gjvowhrf.w'hykvdfhlyxcwul
yyyyEoyxkhysukciyawhyucvlywhjvbcu--vflywyhkvsrcyafubyxcyhgw.cq
yyyyWvbyfvyGjhx.wuw,y.kvsyVwrw--kvyxkhyhkrcvlywvsjkhxyswtcbq
yyyyWrryxkhyfuvwdcvlhyfiyhgrcvbfju--iufdyxkhygcuhfvyhlukggcbyxcyfii,
yyyyAklxywyhkvsrcypchl,yhmwumcymfpcucb,--'dkbylxcyhfuufayfiyxkhyiukcvbhq
yyyyHrfaroyawvbcucbyifulxylxcydfvwumx--iwrrcvyiufdyhjmxywvyxcksxlyfiyerkhhq
yyyyBwdwowvlkyaklxyfvcyswudcvl--hrfaroyifrrfacbyxkdyecxkvbq
yyyyLxuccyrfvsyvksxlhyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumx--lxcucyaklxfjlylxcyswlchyxwbybacrlq
yyyyGufmrwdwlkfvylxufjsxylxcymklo--lxcvybkbyGjhx.wuwyekbydw.c,
yyyy"Axfhfc'cuyeciukcvbclxyVwrw--hxwrrylfykvhlwvlybcwlxyecybffdcbq"
yyyyLxjh,ywhyGjhx.wuwyswpcyfubcu--kvylxcylcuufuyfiyxkhygfacu,
yyyyDksxlylxcymklktcvhyvfyrfvscu--xfhgklweroyhcupcylxcy.kvsq
yyyyVcwuylxcyawrrh,yfiy.kvbyucmcglkfv--afulxkchl,yejlyeoyvfvcyucmckpcb;
yyyyLxuccyvksxlhyrfvscuyhlwkbylxcydfvwumx--awlcuyawhyxkhyfvroybukv.,
yyyyXcykvyjviwhlkbkfjhyxjvscu--grjm.cbylxcyiujklh,ylxcyufflhyfiycwulxq
yyyyLxcvyacvlyifulxywswkvylxcyfjlmwhl:--Bwdwowvlkyifrrfacbyhrfaq
yyyyKvylxcywsfvoyfiyiwdkvc--Vwrw,ywilcuydwvoybwoh,
yyyyHwayhfdcyekubhywufjvbyxkdyhcllrkvs--aklxylxckuysfrbcvylkvmljucbyakvshq
yyyyLxcvylxcydfvwumxyfiyVkhxwbxw--lxfjsxlyaklxkvyxkhyhcmuclyxcwul,
yyyyLxchcylf-bwoydoyacrmfdcyewvnjcl--wvbydoylucwhjucylxchcyakrryecq
yyyyFpcuylxcdyxkhyhkvsrcyswudcvl--hgucwbkvsyrksxlyxcyauwggcbylxcdyufjvb:
yyyyJgylxwlyhkvsrcyswudcvlyecwukvs--lfylxcywkuylxcoyhguwvsywawo;
yyyyWvbylxcyekubhywefpcyxkdyxfpcukvs--lxjhykvyxjdwvywmmcvlhyhgw.c,
yyyyVw.cbywhylxcoyhwayxkdyhlwvbkvs--fvylxcycwulx,ywvbyhwb,ywvbyrfvc:--
yyyy"Rf,yacywucylxcybkmc,ylfyhgfkrylxcc--lxjhybchmcvbcb,yiffrkhxy.kvs!
yyyyAxkrcylxfjyxwbhlywyhkvsrcyswudcvl--wrryfjuyzfoyawhykvmfdgrclcq"
yyyyAxcvylxcybkmcyxcyhwaybcgwulkvs--wvbyxkdhcriyaklxfjlyxkhyufec,
yyyyDfjuvijrroybkbyGjvowhrf.w--lxjhylfyBwdwowvlkyhgcw.:
yyyy"Lxco,yFyerwdcrchh,yeoyaxfhcywvscu--iufdydoy.kvsbfdyKywdybukpcv,
yyyyRkic-hjhlwkvkvsyiffbyjvwerc--kvydoydkhcuoylfyikvb--
yyyyLxco,ylxufjsxyaxfdyVkhxwbxw'hygcfgrc--dwoyvflyxfjhcylxckuyfjlmwhly.kvs--
yyyyLxco,ylxcyifudhyfiyekubhywhhjdkvs--doyfvcyufecyxwpcyefuvcywawoq
yyyyKvylxcybwu.yc lucdcyfiydkhcuo--hwbywvbyiuwvlkmywhyKywd,
yyyyXcwuydc,ygukvmchh,yxcwuywvbygufikl--eoylxoyxjhewvb'hyechlywbpkmcq
yyyyXcvmcywucydwvoyufwbhybkpcuskvs--lfylxcyucskfvyfiylxcyhfjlx,[63]
yyyyGwhhkvsyeoyWpwvlk'hymklo[64]--wvbylxcyxcksxlyfiyUkhxwpàv;
yyyyPkvbxowyxcuc,ylxcydksxloydfjvlwkv[65]--wvbyGwofhxvk'hyhcwawubyhlucwd;[66]
yyyyWvbylxcyrfvcyuclucwlhyfiyxcudklh--fvylxcyiujklhyfiycwulxylxwlyrkpc;
yyyyLxkhyakrryrcwbylxccylfyPkbwuexw--lxkhylfyMfhwrwywawo,[67]
yyyyIwuyecofvbylxcyucskfvyhluclmxch--hfjlxawubylfylxcyhfjlxawubymrkdcq"
yyyyKvylxchcyafubhylfyBwdwowvlk--bkbylxcyufowryVwrwyhgcw.,
yyyyDfucylxwvyfvmcylfyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--wv kfjhygfkvlkvsyfjlylxcyawoq
yyyyHxc,yaklxypfkmcyxwriymxf.cbyaklxyhfuufa--aklxyxcuyacksxlyfiyafcyfgguchhcb,
yyyyLxchcyhwbyafubhybkbyBwdwowvlk--lfyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumxyhgcw.:--
yyyy"Doywiirkmlcbyxcwulykhyeucw.kvs--wvbydoyhkv.kvsydcdecuhyiwkr,
yyyyAxcv,yFy.kvs,ylxoybchgcuwlcymfjvhcr--fvmcyKylxkv.yfi,yfvmcywswkvq
yyyyUfeecbyfiy.kvsbfd,yufeecbyfiyukmxch--vw.cb,ylxkuhlywvbyxjvscuyafuv;
yyyyXfayhxwrryKybcgwulywvbyrcwpcylxcc--kvylxcyaffbyeoydwvyjvlufbq
yyyyAxcvylxfjyhwbywvbyiwdkvc-hlukm.cv--lxkv.chlyfiylxoyifudcuyerkhh,
yyyyKvylxcyakrbyaffb,yfx,ydoyxjhewvb,--Kylxoyacwukvchhyakrryhfflxcq
yyyyRk.cywyakic,ykvycpcuoyhfuufa--lxkhylxcyakhcygxohkmkwvhyfav,
yyyyXcwrkvsyxcueykhyvfvcyfuyewrhwd--Vwrw,y'lkhylxcylujlxyKyhgcw.q"

yyyyVWRWy_hgw.c_q

yyyyHrcvbcu-awkhlcbyBwdwowvlk--lujc,ykvbccb,ykhywrrylxfj'hlyhwkb;
yyyyRk.cywyakicyvfyiukcvbroydcbkmkvc--lfywiirkmlcbydwvykhyskpcvq
yyyyIcwuyvflylxwlyKylxccywewvbfv--Axcucifuc,ylkdkb,ybucwb'hlylxfjylxkh?
yyyyFx,ydohcriydksxlyKywewvbfv--wvbyvflylxcc,ylxfjyjvucgufwmxcbq

yyyyBWDWOWVLKy_hgw.c_q

yyyyKiykvbccb,yfxydksxloydfvwumx--lxfjyakrlyvc'cuywewvbfvydc,
yyyyAxcucifucylxcvylfawubhyPkbwuexw--bfhlylxfjygfkvlydcyfjlylxcyawoq
yyyyAcrr,yKy.vfaylxcc,yvfercyVwrw--lfybchculydcyiwuylffylujc,
yyyyFvroyaklxywyhfjrybkhluwmlcb--afjrb'hlylxfjyrcwpcydc,yrfubyfiycwulxq
yyyyOcl,ywswkv,ylxcyawoylxfjygfkvlchl--ocl,ywswkv,ylxfjyechlyfiydcv,
yyyyLxjhydoyhfuufayhlkrrycvxwvmkvs--fx,ylxfjyrk.cylxcykddfulwrysfbh;
yyyyKiylxkhyecylxoyecllcuymfjvhcr--'lfyxcuy.kvbucbyrclyxcuysf,'
yyyyEcyklyhf,ywvbyeflxylfsclxcu--lfyPkbwuexwyhclyacyifulxq
yyyyLxccyPkbwuexw'hy.kvsyakrryxfvfju--xfvfju'bykvyxkhyljuvyeoylxcc;
yyyyXcrbykvyxksxyuchgcmlywvbyxwggo--kvyfjuydwvhkfvylxfjyhxwrrybacrrq




EFF.y q


yyyyVWRWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Dksxloykhylxoyiwlxcu'hy.kvsbfd--fvmcyawhydkvcywhydksxloylff;
yyyyVcpcuyakrryKylxcucyhcc.yucijsc--kvydoyewhcyc lucdkloq
yyyyLxcucyKyfvmcywggcwucbykvysrfuo--lfylxcyc wrlkvsyfiylxoygukbc;
yyyyHxwrryKyvfaywggcwuykvydkhcuo--lfylxcykvmucwhkvsyfiylxoyhxwdc?"
yyyyVwrwylxjhylfyBwdwowvlk--hgw.cywswkv,ywvbyoclywswkv,
yyyyMfdifulkvsylxcyvfercyrwbo--hmwvlykvyxwriywyswudcvlymrwbq
yyyyEflxylfsclxcuyeoyfvcyswudcvl[68]--mfpcucb,yufwdcbylxcoyxcucywvbylxcuc;
yyyyAcwukcbyfjlyeoylxkuhlywvbyiwdkvc--lfywymwekvybucaylxcoyvcwuq
yyyyAxcvylxcoyucwmxcbylxwlyrfaroymwekv--lxcvybkbysucwlyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs
yyyyAklxylxcygukvmchhyfiyPkbwuexw--fvylxcyxwubycwulxyhcwlylxcdybfav;
yyyyVw.cb,yaklxyvfydwlylfyuchlyfv--aclyaklxydkucywvbyhlwkvcbyaklxybjhlq
yyyyAcwuoylxcvyaklxyBwdwowvlk--fvylxcycwulxyxcyicrrywhrccgq
yyyyHwv.ylxcyrfpcroyBwdwowvlk--eoyxkhyhkbcyaklxyhrccgyfgguchl,
yyyyHxcylxjhygrjvscbykvyhjbbcvydkhcuo--hxcylxcylcvbcu,ylxcybcpfjlq
yyyyEjlyaxkrcyfvylxcymfrbycwulxyhrjdecucb--Bwdwowvlk,ywrrybkhluwjsxl
yyyyVwrwykvyxkhydkvbyeoyhfuufa--dksxlyvfyrfvscuymwrdroyhrccg;
yyyyIfuylxcyrfhkvsyfiyxkhy.kvsbfd--lxcybchculkfvyfiyxkhyiukcvbh,
yyyyWvbyxkhyacwuoyifuchlyawvbcukvsh--gwkvijryfvyxkhylxfjsxlywufhc;
yyyy"KiyKybfykl,yaxwlydwoyifrrfa?--axwlykiyKyucijhcylfybf?
yyyyAcucydoykvhlwvlybcwlxylxcyecllcu--fuylfywewvbfvyxcuyKyrfpcq
yyyyEjlylfydcylffybccgybcpflcb--hjiicuhyhxcybkhluchhywvbyhxwdc;
yyyyUcilyfiydcyhxcyxfdcydwoyawvbcu--lfyxcuyufowryiwlxcu'hyxfjhc;
yyyyIwklxijryawvbcukvsycpcuyaklxydc--mculwkvyhfuufayakrryhxcyecwu,
yyyyEjlykiyhcgwuwlcbyiufdydc--mxwvmcyfiyhfrwmcydwoyecyxcuhq"
yyyyRfvsyaklxkvyxkhyxcwulyxcygfvbcucb--wvbywswkv,ywswkvyacksxcbyf'cuq
yyyyEchlyxcylxfjsxlyklyBwdwowvlk--lfybchcul,ylxwlyauclmxcby.kvsq
yyyyIufdyxcuypkuljcyvfvcybwucyxwudyxcu[69]--kvylxcyrfvcroyifuchlyawo,
yyyyXcuylxcyifuljvwlc,ylxcyvferc--doybcpflcbyacbbcbyakicq
yyyyLxjhyxkhydkvbyfvyBwdwowvlk--bacrlykvyklhygcupculcbylxfjsxl,
yyyyAufjsxlyeoy.wrk'hycpkrykvirjcvmc--lfybchculyxkhyrfpcroyakicq
yyyyFiyxkdhcriyaklxfjlywyswudcvl--wvbyfiyxcuyaklxyfvroyfvcq
yyyyWhyxcylxfjsxl,ywggufwmxcbyxcyvcwuyxcu--lfybkpkbcylxwlyhkvsrcyufecq
yyyy"XfayhxwrryKybkpkbcylxcyswudcvl--eoydoyrfpcbyfvcyjvgcumckpcb?"
yyyyGfvbcukvsylxkhyaklxkvyxkhyhgkukl--ufjvbylxcymwekvyVwrwyacvl;
yyyyKvylxwlyvwuufaymwekv'hymkumjkl--Vwrwyawvbcucbyxcucywvbylxcuc,
yyyyLkrryxcyifjvbyaklxfjlywyhmweewub--hxkvkvs,ywyacrr-lcdgcucbyhafubq
yyyyLxcvyaxcvyxwriylxwlyfvroyswudcvl--xcyxwbyhcpcucb,ywvbygjlyfv,
yyyyKvyxcuyhrccgyPkbwuexw'hygukvmchh--aklxyecakrbcucbydkvbyxcyircbq
yyyyOcl,yxkhymujcryxcwulyucrcvlkvs--lfylxcymwekvyljuvhyxcyewm.;
yyyyFvylxcyhrjdecukvsyBwdwowvlk--swtkvs,yhwbroyacglylxcy.kvs;
yyyy"Lxfj,ylxwlyhjvyvfuyakvbyxwlxycpcu--ufjsxroypkhklcb,ydoyrfpc!
yyyyFvylxcyxwubycwulxykvywymwekv--hrccgchlyaklxylxoysjwubkwvysfvcq
yyyyLxjhywllkucbykvyxwriywyswudcvl--hxcylxwlywocyhfyhacclroyhdkrcb,
yyyyRk.cylfyfvcybkhluwmlcb,yecwjlcfjh--xfaywlyrcvslxyakrryhxcywaw.c?
yyyyXfayakrr'lyiwucyaklxyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--rfvc,ywewvbfvcbyeoyxcuyrfub,
yyyyAwvbcukvsykvylxcyhwpwscyifuchl--axcucyakrbyecwhlhywvbyhcugcvlhybacrrq
yyyyDwoylxcyhjvhywvbyakvbhyfiyxcwpcv--dwoylxcyscvkkyfiylxcyaffbh,[70]
yyyyVferchl,ydwoylxcoywrryguflcmlylxcc--lxkvcyfavypkuljcylxoyechlysjwubq"
yyyyLfyxkhyakicyfiygccurchhyecwjlo--fvylxcycwulx,y'lawhylxjhyxcyhgf.cq
yyyyLxcvyfiyhcvhcyecucilyeoy.wrk--Vwrwyxwhlkroyhclyifulx;
yyyyWvbybcgwulkvs,yhlkrrybcgwulkvs--xcyucljuvcbywswkv,ywswkv;
yyyyBuwsscbywawoyeoylxwlyewbybcdfv--cpcuyeoyxkhyrfpcybuwavyewm.q
yyyyVwrw,ylxjhyxkhyxcwulybkpkbcb--kvlfylafymfvirkmlkvsygwulh,
yyyyRk.cywyhakvsysfchyewm.awub,yifuawub--iufdylxcymwekv,ylfywvbyiufq
yyyyLfuvywawoywlyrcvslxyeoy.wrk--irkchywiwuylxcyiuwvlkmy.kvs,
yyyyRcwpkvsylxcucyxkhyakicykvyhrjdecu--dw.kvsydkhcuwercydfwvhq
yyyyUcilyfiyhcvhc,ygfhhchhcbyeoy.wrk--lxkv.kvsyhlkrryfvyxcuyxcyrcil,
yyyyGwhhcbyxcykvylxcyrfvcroyifuchl--rcwpkvsyxkhybchculcbyakicq




EFF.y Kq


yyyyHmwumcroyxwby.kvsyVwrwygwulcb--Bwdwowvlkyvfayuciuchxcb,
yyyyAw.cvcbyjg,ylxcyhrcvbcu-awkhlcb--lkdfufjhykvylxcybchculyaffbq
yyyyAxcvyhxcybkbyvflyhccyxcuyxjhewvb--fpcugfacucbyaklxysukciywvbygwkv,
yyyyRfjbyhxcyhxukc.'bykvyxcuyikuhlywvsjkhx--"Axcucywulylxfj,yVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs?
yyyyDksxloy.kvs!ydoyhfjr-guflcmlfu--F,ydoyrfub!ybchcul'hlylxfjydcq
yyyyFx,yK'dyrfhl!yjvbfvcyifuycpcu--xcrgrchhykvylxcyakrbyaffbyrcil;
yyyyIwklxijryfvmcylfycpcuoybjlo--aculylxfjyvfl,ywvbylujcykvyafubq
yyyyWulylxfjyiwklxijrylfylxoygufdkhc--lfybchculydcylxjhykvyhrccgq
yyyyMfjrb'hlylxfjylxcvybcgwul,yifuhw.kvs--lxoybcpflcb,ymfvhlwvlyakic;
yyyyXcuykvyhfflxylxwlyvcpcuyaufvscbylxcc--aufvscbykvbccb,yejlyvflyeoyxcuq
yyyy.ccg'hlylxfjylxjhylxoyhfrcdvygufdkhc--fx,yjviwklxijryrfubyfiydcv,
yyyyLxcuc,yaxcvywrrylxcysfbhyacucyguchcvl--grksxlcbylfylxoyacbbcbyakic?
yyyyBcwlxykhyejlybcmuccbylfydfulwrh--wlyklhyfavywggfkvlcbylkdc,
yyyyXcvmcyfvcydfdcvl,ylxjhybchculcb[71]--fvcyeukciydfdcvlybfyKyrkpcq--
yyyyEjlylxfj'hlyxwbylxoyhgful--cvfjsxylxcv--vfaybchkhl,yFy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyDfm.yvflylxfjywylucderkvsyafdwv--hxfaylxccylfydc,yFydoyrfub!
yyyyOch,yKyhccylxcc,ylxcucyKyhccylxcc--xkbbcvywhylxfjylxkv.'hlyiufdyhksxl,
yyyyKvylxcyujhxchyaxoymfvmcwrylxcc?--wvhacuydc,yaxoyhgcw.'hlylxfjyvflq
yyyyAxcucifucyvfayjvscvlrcyhlwo'hlylxfj--rk.cylfyfvcyifuhafuv,ywrffi?
yyyyAxcucifucyakrlylxfjyvflywggufwmxydc--lfymfvhfrcydcykvydoyafc?
yyyyIfuydohcriyKyakrryvflyhfuufa--vfuyifuywjsxlylfydcyeciwrrhq
yyyyLxfjywulywrrywrfvc,ydoyxjhewvb,--Kyakrryfvroydfjuvyifuylxccq
yyyyXfayakrr'lyiwucyaklxylxcc,ydoyVwrw--lxkuhlkvs,yiwdkhxcb,yiwkvlyaklxylfkrq
yyyyVfuyecxfrbkvsydcywawklylxcc--jvbcuvcwlxylxcylucchywlycpcq"
yyyyLxcv,ykvywrryxcuybcglxyfiywvsjkhx--aklxyxcuylufjercywhyfvyikuc,
yyyyXklxcu,ylxklxcu,yacvlyhxcyaccgkvs--wrrywufjvbyhxcyacvlywvbyawkrcbq
yyyyVfayhgukvshyjgylxcybchfrwlcygukvmchh--vfayiwrrhybfavykvygufhluwlcysukci;
yyyyVfayhxcygkvchykvyhkrcvlyhfuufa--vfayhxcyhxukc.hywvbyawkrhywrfjbq
yyyyHfymfvhjdcbyaklxykvawubydkhcuo--cpcuyhksxkvsydfucywvbydfuc,
yyyyHgw.cywlyrcvslxy.kvsyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--hgw.cylxcyhlkrrybcpflcbyakic:
yyyy"Xc,yeoyaxfhcybkucykdgucmwlkfv--Vwrwylxkhybucwbyhjiicukvsyecwuh,
yyyyDwoyxcyiwuyhjugwhhykvyhjiicukvs--wrrylxwlyVwrwyhjiicuhyvfa,
yyyyDwoylxcycpkryfvc,ylfycpkr--axfylxcyerwdcrchhyVwrwybukpch,
yyyyHdkllcvyeoywymjuhcywhyiwlwr--rkpcywybwu.yjverchhcbyrkicq"
yyyyLxjhyxcuywehcvlyrfubyrwdcvlkvs--lxwlyxksx-dkvbcbyuwzw'hynjccv,
yyyyCpcuo-axcucyxcuyrfubyacvlyhcc.kvs--kvylxcyhwlou-xwjvlcbyaffbq[72]
yyyyRk.cywydwvkwm,yExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--awvbcucbyawkrkvsyxcucywvbylxcuc;
yyyyWvby"wrwh!ywrwh!ydoyxjhewvb"--cpcuo-axcucyxcuymuoyawhyxcwubq
yyyyXcuyecofvbywrrydcwhjucyawkrkvs--rk.cylxcyfhgucoyhmucwdkvsyhxukrr,
yyyyDkhcuweroyhlkrrybcgrfukvs--hlkrryucvcakvsyxcuyrwdcvlq
yyyyHjbbcvroy.kvsyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--whyhxcyawvbcucbyvcwuyxkhyrwku,
yyyyHcktcbywyxjscyskswvlkmyhcugcvl--kvyxkhyuwskvsyiwdkvcyikcumcq
yyyyKvylxcysuwhgyfiylxwlyikcumcyhcugcvl--ufjvbywefjlyaklxylcuufuyskul,
yyyyVflyxcuhcriyhxcygklkchyfvro--gklkchyhxcyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvsq
yyyy"Fydoysjwubkwv,ylxjhyjvsjwubcb--kvylxkhyhwpwscyifuchlyhcktcb,
yyyyHcktcbyeoylxkhylcuukikmyhcugcvl--axcucifucywulyvflylxfjywlyxwvb?
yyyyXfayakrr'lyec,yaxcvylxfjyucdcdecuchl--fvmcywswkvylxoyiwklxijryakic,
yyyyIufdylxkhybucwbijrymjuhcybcrkpcucb--dkvb,ywvbyhcvhc,ywvbyacwrlxyucljuvcb?
yyyyAxcvylxfj'ulyacwuo,yaxcvylxfj'ulyxjvsuo--axcvylxfj'ulyiwkvlkvsyaklxyiwlksjc,
yyyyAxfyakrryhfflxc,yFyerwdcrchhyVwrw--wrrylxoyacwukvchh,ylxoyafcq"
yyyyyyLxcvywyxjvlhdwvywhyxcyawvbcucb--kvylxcyifuchlyzjvsrcylxkm.,
yyyyWhyxcyxcwubyxcuylxjhyecawkrkvs--kvyxkhyjldfhlyxwhlcybucayvcwuq
yyyyKvylxcysuwhgyaxcvyxcyecxcrbyxcu--fiylxwlyrfvs-cocbyhcugcvlyicrr,
yyyyKvhlwvlybkbylxcyvkdercyxjvlhdwv--uwgkbroywhyxcymwdcyfv,
yyyyGkcumcylxwlyjvuchkhlkvsyhcugcvl--aklxywyhxwugywvbydfulwryhxwil:
yyyyKvyxcuyhksxlyxcyhrcaylxwlyhcugcvl--h.krr'bykvyhrwjsxlcuyfiylxcymxwhcq
yyyyXcuyucrcwhcbyxcyiufdyxcuygcukr--awhxcbyxcylxcvyaklxyawlcuygjuc,
yyyyWvbyaklxyhorpwvyiffbyuciuchxcbyxcu--wvbyaklxyhfflxkvsyafubhywbbuchh'b:
yyyy"Axfywulylxfjylxwlyufwd'hlylxcyifuchl--aklxylxcycochyfiylxcyswtcrrc;
yyyyXfaylfylxkhyc lucdcyfiydkhcuo--vfercyrwbo,yxwhlylxfjyiwrrcv?"
yyyyBwdwowvlk,yeoylxcyxjvlhdwv--lxjhykvyhfflxkvsylfvcywbbuchhcb,
yyyyWrrylxcyhlfuoyfiyxcuydkhcuo-lfrbyxkd,ywhyklywrryecicrr;
yyyyXcu,yhmwvl-mrflxcbykvyxwriywyswudcvl--aklxyhfilyhacrrkvsyrkdehywvbyeucwhl,
yyyyIfudyfiyofjlxijryiwjrlrchhyecwjlo--wvbyxcuyiwkuywvbydffvrk.cyiwmc,
yyyyWvbyxcuycochyaklxyeufahybwu.ywumxkvs--wvbyxcuyhfilro-dcrlkvsyhgccmx,
yyyyHwayrfvsylkdcylxwlyakrbyecwhlyxjvlcu--.kvbrcbywrryxkhyxcwulyaklxyrfpcq
yyyyLxcvyaklxyakvvkvsypfkmcylxwlyxjvlhdwv--erwvbyecskvvkvsyxkhybkhmfjuhc,
yyyyIwkvyaklxywdfufjhyhgccmxyafjrbyhfflxcyxcu--hxcyxkhybwu.ykvlcvlygcumckpcbq
yyyyBwdwowvlk,ymxwhlcywvbyiwklxijr,--hffvywhyhxcyxkhydcwvkvsy.vca,
yyyyKvylxcyluwvhgfulyfiyxcuywvscu--xcuykvbksvwvlyhfjrylff.yikucq
yyyyKvyxkhyakm.cbylxfjsxlylxcybwhlwub--xcuyoclygfacurchhylfyhjebjc,
yyyyFvylxcyjvhjebjcbyhlffbyswtkvs--whyrk.cyhfdcyeuksxlyirwdcyhxcyhxfvcq
yyyyBwdwowvlk,ykvyxcuyhfuufa--fiyxcuyucwrd,yxcuyrfubyecucil,
yyyyFvylxcykvhlwvlyhxcyifjvbyrwvsjwsc--jllcucbyrfjbyxcuymjuhcyfiyauwlx,[73]--
yyyy"Whydoygjucywvbymfvhlwvlyhgkukl--hacupchyvflyiufdyVkhxwbxw'hyrfub,
yyyyKvhlwvlyhfydwoylxkhyewhcyxjvlcu--rkicrchhyiwrryjgfvylxcycwulxq"
yyyyHmwumcylxwlyhkvsrcyafubyawhyjllcucb--hjbbcvroylxwlyxjvlcuyefrb
yyyyBfavyjgfvylxcycwulxyicrryrkicrchh--rk.cywyrksxlvkvsyerwhlcbyluccq




EFF.y KKq


yyyyHrwkvylxwlyhwpwscyakrb-ecwhlyxjvlcu--fvawubyacvlylxcyrfljh-cocb,
yyyyLxufjsxylxcybucwb,ywvbybchculyifuchl--ukvskvsyaklxylxcymukm.cl'hyhfvs;
yyyyIjrryfiyrkfvh,ygwubh,ywvbylkscuh--hlwsh,ywvbyejiiwrfh,ywvbyecwuh,
yyyyAxcucywrry.kvbhyfiyekubhyacucyirfm.kvs--wvbyakrbydcvywvbyufeecuhybacrlq
yyyyLucchyfiycpcuoyifudywvbyhlwljuc[74]--cpcuoyifrkwsc,ycpcuoyvwdc;
yyyyGucsvwvlyaklxyukmxydkvchyfiydclwr--dwvoywydfjvlwkvyklycvmrfhcb,
yyyyDwvoywyhxwboyuchfvwvlywuefju--dwvoywybccgywvbyafvbufjhysrcv;
yyyyDwvoywyrw.c,ywvbygffr,ywvbyukpcu--ekubhywvbyecwhlhyfiycpcuoyhxwgcq
yyyyHxc,ykvyifudhylcuukikmyufjvbyxcu--hcugcvlh,ycrpch,ywvbyskwvlhyhwa:[75]
yyyyGffrh,ywvbylwv.hyfiyrjmkbyawlcu--wvbylxcyhxwssoylfghyfiyxkrrh,
yyyyIrfakvsyhlucwdhywvbyxcwbrfvsylfuucvlh--hwa,ywvbyafvbcucbywlylxcyhksxlq
yyyyWvbylxcygukvmchhyfiyPkbwuexw--swtcbyaxcucykvylxckuymfjvlrchhyxcubh,
yyyyEjiiwrfhywvbyecwuhyacucyiccbkvs--efwuh,ywvbyhcugcvlhyfiylxcyaffbq
yyyyHwicykvypkuljc,yeuksxlykvyecwjlo--srfukfjhywvbyfiyxksxyuchfrpc,
yyyyVfaywrfvc,yPkbwuexw'hybwjsxlcu--awvbcukvs,yxcuyrfhlyVwrwyhfjsxlq
yyyyOclyvfyicwuy.kvsyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--ifuyxcuhcriydksxlybcksvylfyiccr,
yyyyLuwpcrrkvsylxcybucwuoyifuchl--fvroyifuyxcuyrfubybkhluchhcb;
yyyyXkdyhxcydfjuvcb,ylxwlyvfercygukvmchh--xkdykvyekllcuchlywvsjkhxyawkrcb,
yyyyCpcuoyrkdeyaklxyhfuufaylucderkvs--hlffbyhxcyfvywyecclrkvsyufm.;
yyyy"Dfvwumx,yaklxyeufwbymxchlymwgwmkfjh--dfvwumxyaklxylxcyhkvcaoywud,
yyyyDcykvylxkhybucwbyifuchlyrcwpkvs--axklxcuyxwhlylxfjyircbywawo?
yyyyLxfjylxcyxfroyWhawdcbxw--lxfjycwmxyhwmukikmkwryuklc,
yyyyXwhlygcuifudcb,ylfydc,ydcyfvro--kvylxoyxfroyiwklxylxfj'hlyiwkrcbq
yyyyLxwlyaxkmxylxfj,yFyechlyfiyxjhewvbh--kvydkvcyxcwukvsyxwhlybcmrwucb,
yyyyLxoydfhlyhfrcdvypfayucdcdecu--mwrrylfydkvbylxoygrksxlcbyiwklxq
yyyyFiylxcyhakil-akvscbyhawvhylxcyrwvsjwsc--jllcucb,ydfvwumx,yeoylxoyhkbc,
yyyyLxwlylxohcri,yecifucydoyguchcvmc--bkbhlyucvca,yeclxkv.ylxccyacrrq
yyyyLxfjylxcyPcbwh,ylxfjylxcyWvswh--aklxylxcyJgwvswhyfilyxwhlyucwb,
yyyyFiycwmxyxcwpcv-bchmcvbcbypfrjdc--fvcywvbyhkdgrcykhylxcylujlxq
yyyyLxcucifuc,yfiylxoyifchylxcyhrwocu!--ucpcucvmcylxfjylxcyhwmucbylujlx
yyyyFiylxoyhfrcdvygrksxlcbygufdkhc--kvydoyguchcvmcyhafuvyhfyfilq
yyyyWdyvflyKylxcyrfpcbyhfybcwuro--gjucro,yhkvrchhroyecrfpcb;
yyyyKvylxkhybwu.ywvbywaijryifuchl--axcucifucybfhlylxfjyvflyucgro?
yyyyXcucyaklxydfvhlufjhyzwahyakbcyowavkvs--aklxyxkhyikcumcywvbyxfuukbyifud,
yyyySwgchylxcyifuchly.kvsylfyhrwoydc--wvbylxfjywulyvflyxcucylfyhwpcq
yyyyVfvcyejlyK,ylxfj'hlyhwkb,yifuycpcu--vfvcyejlyKylfylxccywdybcwu!
yyyyDw.cylxkhyfil-ucgcwlcbyrwvsjwsc--dw.cylxkhyfil-hafuvygufdkhcylujcq
yyyyLfylxoynjccvyecucilyfiyucwhfv--lfylxoyaccgkvsyakicyecrfpcb,
yyyyAxoyucgrkchlylxfjyvfl--xcuyfvroylxfjybchku'hl--hxcyfvroylxccq
yyyyDcwsuc,ydkhcuwerc,ygwrrkb--lwkvlcbyaklxylxcybjhlywvbydkuc,
yyyyHmwvlroymrwbykvyxwriywyswudcvl--rfvc,yaklxyvfyguflcmlfuyvcwu;
yyyyRk.cywyrwusc-cocbyxkvbylxwlyawvbcuh--hcgwuwlcyiufdylxcyafvlcbyxcub,
yyyyLxfjyucswub'hlydcyvfl,ylxjhyaccgkvs--fxylxfjylwdcuyfiylxoyifchq
yyyyDksxloy.kvs,ywyrfvcroyawvbcucu--kvylxkhypwhlywvbyluwm.rchhyaffb,
yyyyBwdwowvlk,yKywbbuchhylxcc--axcucifucywvhacuchlyvflydoypfkmc?
yyyyVferoyefuv,ywvbyvferoydkvbcb--ecwjlkijrykvycpcuoyrkde,
yyyyBfyKyvflyc'cvyvfayecxfrbylxcc--kvylxkhydfjvlwkv,yikuhlyfiydcv,
yyyyKvylxkhyrkfv-xwjvlcbyifuchl--kvylxkhylkscu-xfarkvsyaffb,
yyyyRokvsybfavyfuyhcwlcb,yhlwvbkvs--fuykvydwzchloywvbydksxl
yyyyDfpkvs,ybfyKyvflyecxfrbylxcc--lxcycvxwvmcuyfiydoyafc?
yyyyAxfyhxwrryKywbbuchh,ywiirkmlcb--awhlcbyeoydoysukciywawo;
yyyy'XwhlylxfjyxwgroyhccvydoyVwrw--kvylxcyhfrklwuoyaffb?'
yyyyAxfylxkhybwoyakrryhxfaylxcydfvwumx--awvbcukvsykvylxcyifuchlybcglx,
yyyyEcwjlkijrywvbyufowr-dkvbcb--mfvnjcufuyfiywvyxfhlyfiyifch!
yyyy'Xkdylxfjyhcc.'hlyaklxycochyfiyrfljh--Vwrw,yhfpcucksvyfiydcv--
yyyyRf,yxc'hyxcuc!'yaxfhcypfkmcyfiydjhkm--dwoyKyxcwuylxjhyhacclroyhgcw.?
yyyyRf,yaklxyifjuifrbyljh.hyecifucydc--wvbyaklxyakbcywvbyswgkvsyzwah,
yyyyHlwvbhylxcyifuchly.kvs,ylxcylkscu--Kywggufwmxyxkdyaklxfjlyicwuq
yyyyFiylxcyecwhlhywulylxfjylxcydfvwumx--wrrylxkhyifuchlylxoybfdwkv,
yyyyIfuylxcybwjsxlcuyfiyPkbwuexw--Bwdwowvlk,y.vfaylxfjydc,
yyyyMfvhfulyfiyVkhxwbxw'hyhfpcucksv--Vwrw,yhrwocuyfiyxkhyifch--
yyyyHcc.kvsyxcucydoyc krcyxjhewvb--rfvcro,yauclmxcb,yhfuufa-bukpcv,
yyyyLxfj,yFy.kvsyfiyecwhlh,ymfvhfrcydc--kiydoyVwrwylxfjyxwhlyhccv;
yyyyFu,yFyrfubyfiywrrylxcyifuchl--Vwrwykiylxfjymwvhlyvflyhxfa,
yyyyEchlyfiyhwpwscyecwhlh,ybcpfjuydc--iufdydoydkhcuoyhclydcyiuccq
yyyyXcwukvsylxjhydoyrwdcvlwlkfv-vfaybfchylxwlyicrry.kvsyfiyecwhlh
yyyySfylfawubhylxcymuohlwryukpcu--irfakvsybfavawubylfylxcyhcwq'--
yyyyLfylxkhydfjvlwkvylxcvylxcyxfro--mufavcbyaklxydwvoywyrfiloygcw.,
yyyyKvyklhyhfjr-c wrlkvsyhgrcvbfju--ukhkvs,ydwvo-xjcb,ylfyxcwpcv;
yyyyIjrryaklxkvyfiygucmkfjhydclwr--ukmxyaklxydwvoywysrfakvsyscd,
yyyyUkhkvsyf'cuylxcyhgucwbkvsyifuchl--rk.cywyewvvcuyeufwbywvbyxksx,
yyyyUwvscbyeoycrcgxwvlhywvbyrkfvh--lkscuh,yecwuh,ywvbyefwuh,ywvbyhlwsh;
yyyyWvbyfiydwvoyekubhylxcypfkmch--hacclroyhfjvbyf'cuywrryklhymrkiih;
yyyyWrrylxcylucchyfiyukmxchlyifrkwsc[76]--wrrylxcylucchyfiyhlwlcrkchlyxcksxl,
yyyyWrrylxcyirfacuhywvbysfrbcvyiujklwsc--fvyklhymuchlcbyhjddklhyawpc,
yyyyBfavyklhygcw.hykvydwvoywyhlucwdrcl--bkgylxcyawlcu-ekubhylxckuyakvsh:
yyyyLxkh,ylxcydfvwumxyfiywrrydfjvlwkvh--wh.yKyfiylxcy.kvsyfiydcv;
yyyy'F,ywrr-xfvfjucbyGukvmcyfiyDfjvlwkvh,yaklxylxoyxcwpcv-awubyhfwukvsygcw.h,
yyyyUcijscyfiylxcyrfhl,ydfhlyvferc--lxcc,yFyDfjvlwkv,yKyhwrjlc;
yyyyKyhwrjlcylxcc,yrfaroyefakvs--K,ylxcybwjsxlcuyfiywy.kvs;
yyyyFiywy.kvsylxcyufowrymfvhful--fiywy.kvs'hyhfvyKylxcyeukbcq
yyyyFiyPkbwuexwylxcysucwlyhfpcucksv--dksxloyxcufykhydoyhkucq
yyyyVwdcbylxcyrfubyfiycwulx,y.kvsyExkdw--fiycwmxymwhlcylxcysjwubkwvyxc;
yyyyFiylxcyxfroyWhawdcbxw--fiylxcyucswryhwmukikmc,[77]
yyyyXcylxcyfiicucu,yechlyfiydfvwumxh--.vfavyeoyxkhymfddwvbkvsycoc,
yyyyGkfjh,ywvbyfiyrkicyjvercdkhxcb--lujcykvyafub,yfiyscvcufjhyhgccmx,
yyyyWiiwerc,ymfjuwscfjh,ygufhgcufjh--h.krrcbykvycpcuoybjlo,ygjucq
yyyyFiyPkbwuexwylxcyguflcmlfu--mfvnjcufuyfiywyxfhlyfiyifch;
yyyy.vfaydcyfiylxwly.kvsylxcybwjsxlcu--rfaroylxjhywggufwmxkvsylxccq
yyyyKvyVkhxwbxw,ydksxloyDfjvlwkv!ybacrlylxcyiwlxcuyfiydoyrfubq
yyyyXksxylxcyvwdcyxcyafv,ylxcykrrjhlukfjh--Pkuwhcvwyawhyxcymwrrcbq
yyyyFiylxkhy.kvsylxcyhfv,ylxcyxcuf--gufhgcufjhywvbylujroyeuwpc,
yyyyXcyaxfyujrchyxkhyiwlxcu'hy.kvsbfd--eoyxcucbklwuoyuksxl,
yyyyHrwocuyfiyxkhyifch,ybwu.yVwrw--Gjvowhrf.wykhyxcymwrrcb;
yyyyXfro,yPcbwyucwb,ywvbycrfnjcvl--hfdwynjwiikvs,yikucywbfukvs,[78][79]
yyyyHwmukikmcu,yrkecuwryskpcu--awuukfu,ykvywrrygfkvlhywy.kvs,--
yyyyFiylxkhydfvwumx,yechlyfiydfjvlwkvh--.vfa,ylxcyakicyecifucylxccyhlwvbhq
yyyyIwrrcvyiufdyerkhh,yecucilyfiyxjhewvb--jvguflcmlcb,yhfuufa-bffdcb,
yyyyHcc.kvsycpcuoyaxcucyxcuyxjhewvb--xkdylxcyechlyfiyvferchlydcvq
yyyyEchlyfiydfjvlwkvh,yxcwpcv-jghfwukvs--aklxylxoyxjvbucbyhlwlcroygcw.h,
yyyyXwhlylxfjyhccvylxcy.kvsroyVwrw--kvylxkhybwu.ywvbywaijryaffb:
yyyyRk.cylxcycrcgxwvlykvymfjuwsc--akhc,ykdgcljfjh,yaklxyrfvsywudh,
yyyyPwrkwvl,ywvbyfiylujlxyjvnjchlkfvcb--doyxcufkm,ysrfukfjhyrfub;
yyyyXwhlylxfjyhccvyVkhxwbxw'hyhfpcucksv--dksxloyVwrwyxwhlylxfjyhccv?
yyyyAxoyucgrkchlylxfjyvfl,yfxyDfjvlwkv--hfuufakvs,yrfvcro,ywvbybkhluchhcb,
yyyyAklxylxoypfkmcyaxoyvflymfvhfrcydc--whylxkvcyfavywiirkmlcbymxkrb?
yyyyyyXcuf,ydksxlo,yhlufvsykvybjlo--lujcyfiygufdkhc,yrfubyfiycwulx,
yyyyKiylxfjywulyaklxkvylxcyifuchl--hxfaylxccykvylxoygufgcuyifudq
yyyyAxcvyhfycrfnjcvlroybccg-lfvcb--rk.cylxcyhfjvbyfiyhfdcybwu.ymrfjb,
yyyyHxwrryKyxcwuylxoypfkmc,yfxyVwrw!--hacclywhylxcywduklwybuwjsxl,[80]
yyyyHwokvs,y'bwjsxlcuyfiyPkbwuexw!'--aklxybkhlkvml,yaklxyerchhcbyhfjvb,
yyyyDjhkmwrywhyxfroyPcbw--ukmx,ywvbyhfflxkvsywrrydoygwkv;
yyyyLxjhymfvhfrcydc,ylucderkvs,yiwkvlkvs--lxfj,yfxypkuljc-rfpkvsy.kvs!"
yyyyyyLfylxcyxfrkchlyfiydfjvlwkvh--hgw.cylxcybwjsxlcuyfiylxcy.kvsq
yyyyBwdwowvlkylxcvyhclyifuawub--lfawubylxcyucskfvyfiylxcyvfulxq
yyyyLxuccybwohyrfvs,ylxuccyvksxlhyhxcyawvbcucb--lxcvylxwlyvfercyafdwvyhwa,
yyyyLxcyjvukpwrrcbyaffbyfiyxcudklh--rk.cylfywymcrchlkwrysufpcq
yyyyLfylxcywvmkcvlyiwdfjhyxcudklh[81]--cnjwryawhylxwlyhwmucbymuca;
yyyyHcri-bcvokvs,yhlukmlykvybkcl[82]--lcdgcuwlc,ywvbyjvbcikrcb;
yyyyAwlcu-bukv.kvs,ywkuykvxwrkvs--wvbylxcyrcwpchylxckuyhkdgrcyiffb;
yyyyDfulkikcb,yifuycpcuyerchhcb--hcc.kvsylxcyuksxlyawoylfyxcwpcv;
yyyyEwu.yifuypchlhywvbyh.kvhyifuyuwkdcvl--afucylxfhcyxcudklh,yhcvhc-hjebjcbq
yyyyHxcyecxcrbylxcygrcwhwvlymkumrc--fiylxfhcyxcudklh'yrfvcroymcrrh;
yyyyUfjvbylxcdyirfm.hyfiyecwhlhyacucysuwtkvs--awvlfvcbylxcucylxcydfv.coylukechq
yyyyAxcvyhxcyhwaylxfhcyxfroybacrrkvsh--wrryxcuymfjuwscyawhyucpkpcbq
yyyyRfpcroyeufacb,ywvbyrfpcroyluchhcb--rfpcroyefhfd'b,yrfpcroyrkgg'b,[83]
yyyyKvyxcuyeuksxlvchh,ykvyxcuysrfuo--aklxyxcuyrwuscybwu.yecwjlcfjhycoch,
yyyyCvlcucbyhxcylxfhcyxcudklybacrrkvsh--akicyfiyPkuwhcvw'hyhfv;
yyyyGcwuryfiyafdcv,ycpcuyerchhcb-Bwdwowvlkylxcybcpfjl,
yyyyHxcylxfhcyxfroydcvyhwrjlkvs--hlffbyaklxydfbchlyifudyxwriyecvlq
yyyy"Xwkr,ywvbyacrmfdc!"ylxjhylxfhcyxcudklh--kvhlwvlyaklxyfvcypfkmcyc mrwkdcbq
yyyyWvbylxfhcyhwmucbydcvyvfyhffvcu--xwbylxcyikllkvsyxfdwscygwkb,
yyyy"Lw.cylxoyhcwl,"ylxcoyhwkb,y"fxyrwbo[84]--wvbymfddwvbyaxwlyacydjhlybfq"
yyyyLxjhyucgrkcbylxcyhrcvbcuyawkhlcb--"Erchhcbywucyoc,yxfroydcvq
yyyyKvyofjuyhwmucbyikuch,yofjuyafuhxkg[85]--erwdcrchh,yaklxyofjuyecwhlhywvb
yyyyyyyyekubhq[86]
yyyyBflxylxcysuwmcyfiyxcwpcvywllcvbyofj--kvyofjuybjlkch,ykvyofjuybccbh?"
yyyyWvhacucbylxco,y"Lxcysuwmcyfiyxcwpcv--cpcuyerchhchywrryfjuybccbhq
yyyyEjlyhwoylxfj,yfiyifudyhfyecwjlcfjh--axfylxfjywul,ywvbyaxwlylxfjyafjrb'hl?
yyyyWhylxoyvfercyifudyacyswtcyfv--fvylxoyeuksxlvchhywhyacyswtc,
yyyyKvywdwtcyacyhlwvbywvbyafvbcu--mxccuylxccyjg,ywvbydfjuvyvfydfucq
yyyyFiylxcyaffbywulylxfjylxcysfbbchh--fuylxcydfjvlwkvysfbbchhylxfj;
yyyyFuylxcysfbbchhyfiylxcyukpcu?--ErchhcbyHgkukl,yhgcw.ylxcylujlxq
yyyyVfuylxcyhorpwvysfbbchhywdyK,"--lfylxcyAkhcyhxcylxjhyucgrkcb;
yyyy"Vcklxcuyfiylxcydfjvlwkv,yEuwxdkvh--vfuylxcyukpcuyvodgxywdyKq
yyyy.vfaydcyejlywydfulwryeckvs--F,yocyukmxykvyxfrkvchh!
yyyyWrrydoylwrcywlyrcvslx,yK'rrylcrryoc--kiydcclywjbkcvmcyocyakrryskpcq
yyyyKvyPkbwuexw,ydksxloysjwubkwv--Exkdw,ybacrrhylxcyrfubyfiycwulx;
yyyyFiylxwlyvfercy.kvsylxcybwjsxlcu--lakmc-efuvyHwsch,y.vfayocydcq[87]
yyyyWvbylxcydfvwumxyfiyVkhxwbxw--Vwrwyvwdcb,ylxcysucwlykvyiwdc;
yyyyEuwpcykvyewllrc,ymfvnjcufu,ygujbcvl--khydoyrfub,ylxcygcwhwvlh'y.kvs;
yyyyLfylxcysfbhybcpfjlykvyafuhxkg--iukcvbroylfylxcyEuwxdkvyuwmc,
yyyyFiyVkhxwbxw'hyuwmcylxcysjwubkwv--sucwlykvysrfuo,ysucwlykvydksxl,
yyyyLujcykvyafub,ywvbyh.krrcbykvybjlo--wvbylxcyhrwocuyfiyxkhyifchq
yyyyGkfjh,yxcwpcv-bcpflcb,ygufhgcufjh--mfvnjcufuyfiyxfhlkrcylfavh;
yyyyVwrwyvwdcb,ylxcyechlyfiyhfpcucksvh--hgrcvbkbywhylxcy.kvsyfiysfbhq
yyyy.vfaylxwlyrwusc-cocbymxkci,ydoyxjhewvb--rk.cylxcyijrr-fuecbydffvyxkhyiwmc,
yyyySkpcuyxcyfiymfhlroyfiicukvsh--bccgykvylx'yxfroypfrjdchyucwb;
yyyyHrwocuyfiyxkhyifchykvyewllrc--srfukfjhywhylxcyhjvywvbydffvq
yyyyXcylfyhfdcydfhlycpkrydkvbcb--jvuchgcmlcb,yakm.cbydcv,
yyyyWilcuydwvoywymxwrrcvsc,yhljbkfjh--xcyfiypkuljcywvbyfiylujlx,
yyyyLfylxchcyh.krijryswdchlcuh,yiuwjbijr--rfhlyxkhy.kvsbfdywvbyxkhyacwrlxq
yyyy.vfayocydcylxcyxwgrchhymfvhful--fiylxwlyvfercy.kvsyfiy.kvsh,
yyyyBwdwowvlk,yhfylxcoyvwdcydc--ocwuvkvsyifuydoyxjhewvb'hyhksxlq
yyyyKylxufjsxyifuchlh,yfpcuydfjvlwkvh--hlwsvwvlydwuhxywvbyukpcuyeufwb,
yyyyRw.cyaklxyakbcygcrrjmkbyhjuiwmc--lxufjsxylxcyrfvsywvbyluwm.rchhyaffb,
yyyyCpcuyhcc.kvsyifuydoyxjhewvb--Vwrw,yh.krijrykvylxcyiksxlq
yyyyDksxloykvylxcyjhcyfiyacwgfvh--awvbcuybchfrwlcywvbyhwbq
yyyyLcrrydc,ylfylxkhygrcwhwvlyhfzfjuv--hwmucbylfylxchcyxfroydcv,
yyyyXwlxyxcymfdc,ylxcyufowryVwrw?--xwlxyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumxymfdc?
yyyyIfuyaxfhcyhw.cylxufjsxyawohywrryluwm.rchh--lcuukerc,yxwpcyKyhclyifulx,
yyyyKvylxkhybucwu,ywggwrrkvsyifuchl--axcucylxcyrov ywvbylkscuyuwvsc,
yyyyKiyKyhccyvflyvfercyVwrw--cucyicaybwoh,yicayvksxlhywucyf'cu,
yyyyKylfyxwggkvchhyakrryzfkvydc--iufdylxkhydfulwryiuwdcyhclyiuccq
yyyyUcilyfiyxkd,ydoygukvmcroyxjhewvb--axwlyxwpcyKylfybfyaklxyrkic--
yyyyXfaycvbjucyc khlcvmcyrfvscu--ifuydoyxjhewvbylxjhybkhluchhcbq"
yyyyLfylxcyrwboylxjhymfdgrwkvkvs--rfvcroykvylxcyhwpwscyaffb,
yyyyWvhacucbylxjhylxfhcyxfroyxcudklh--hgw.cylxcyskilcbyhccuhylxcylujlx:--
yyyy"Lxcucyakrryecywylkdcyxcucwilcu--ecwjlkijr,ylxcylkdcyakrrymfdc,
yyyyLxufjsxybcpflkfvyvfayacyhccyxkd[88]--wvbylxfjylffyakrlyhccyxkdyhffv;
yyyyLxwlysffbydfvwumxyfiyVkhxwbxw--Vwrw,yhrwocuyfiyxkhyifch;
yyyyLxwlybkhgcvhcuyfiyhlukmlyzjhlkmc--Exkdw'hybwjsxlcu!yiuccyiufdysukci,
yyyyIufdywrryhkvyucrcwhcb,ylxfj'rlyhccyxkd--srkllcukvsykvyxkhyufowryscdh,
yyyySfpcuvkvsylxwlyvfercymklo--f'cuyxkhycvcdkchyhjgucdcq
yyyyLfyxkhyifcdcvymwjhkvsylcuufu--lfyxkhyiukcvbhywrrwokvsysukci,
yyyyLxfj,yfxyvferc,yhxwrlylxoyxjhewvb--hcc,ylxwly.kvsyfiyvfercyuwmcq"
yyyyLfylxcydjmx-rfpcbyakicyfiyVwrw--lfylxcygukvmchhyhgcw.kvsylxjh,
yyyyPwvkhxcbylxcvylxfhcyxfroyxcudklh--aklxylxckuyhwmucbyikuch,ylxckuymcrrhq
yyyyWhyhxcyswtcbyjgfvylxcyafvbcu--auwglykvydjlcywdwtcyhxcyhlffb;
yyyyBwdwowvlk,yiwku-rkdecbygukvmchh--akicyfiyPkuwhcvw'hyhfv;
yyyy"XwpcyKyfvroyhccvywypkhkfv--axwlyxwlxyeccvylxkhyafvbufjhymxwvmc?
yyyyAxcucywucywrrylxfhcyxfroyxcudklh--axcucylxcymkumrcyfiylxckuymcrrh?
yyyyAxcucylxwlygjucywvbygrcwhwvlyukpcu--xwjvlcbyeoylxcybkggkvsyekubh?
yyyyAxcucylxfhcylucchyaklxysuwlcijryjdeuwsc--aklxylxckuygcvbwvlyiujklhywvb
yyyyyyyyirfacuh?"
yyyyRfvsyaklxkvyxcuyxcwulyhxcygfvbcucb--Bwdwowvlkyaklxyhacclyhdkrc,
yyyyIfuyxcuyrfub,ylfysukciywewvbfvcb--dkhcuwerc,ygwrcyfiyxjc;
yyyyLfywvflxcuyucskfvygwhhcbyhxc--lxcucyaklxypfkmcyeoyaccgkvsymxf.cb,
yyyyDfjuvhyhxc,ylkrryaklxycochyf'cuirfakvs--wvyWhfmwyluccyhxcyhwaq
yyyyEchlyfiylucch,ylxcyWhfmwyerffdkvs[89]--kvylxcyifuchlyhxcywggufwmxcb,
yyyyScddcbywrryf'cuyaklxysrfakvsyiujklwsc--pfmwryaklxylxcyhfvshyfiyekubhq
yyyyyy"Wx,yecxfrbywdkbylxcyifuchl--irfjukhxchylxkhyxwggoylucc,
yyyyAklxyklhyrcwioyswurwvbhyuwbkwvl--whylxcyzfofjhydfjvlwkvy.kvsq
yyyyFylxfjyluccyaklxygrcwhwvlywhgcml--iufdydoyhfuufayhclydcyiuccq
yyyyPklwhfmw,yxwhlylxfjyhccvyxkd--xwhlylxcyicwurchhyuwzwyhccv,
yyyyVwrw,yfiyxkhyifchylxcyhrwocu--Bwdwowvlk'hyrfubyecrfpcb?
yyyyXwhlylxfjyhccvyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumx--xwhlylxfjyhccvydkvcyfvroyrfpc,
yyyyMrwbykvyxwriywyhkvsrcyswudcvl--aklxyxkhyhfilywvbybcrkmwlcyh.kv;
yyyyXwhlylxfjyhccvylx'ywiirkmlcbyxcuf--awvbcukvsykvylxcyifuchlyrfvcq
yyyyLxwlyKydwoybcgwulyjvsukcpkvs--iwkuyWhfmw,ywvhacuydcq
yyyyLujroyecylxfjyvwdcbyWhfmw[90]--whylxcyc lkvsjkhxcuyfiysukciq"
yyyyLxjhykvyxcuyf'cugfacukvsywvsjkhx--dfpcbyhxcyufjvbylxcyWhfmwyluccq
yyyyLxcvyhxcyacvlyxcuyawoykvyhwbvchh--lfywvflxcuyucskfvybucwbq
yyyyDwvoywyluccyhxcyhlffbywvbyswtcbyfv--dwvoywyukpcuygwhhcbyhxcyf'cu;
yyyyGwhhcbyhxcydwvoywygrcwhwvlydfjvlwkv--dwvoywyakrbybccu,ydwvoywyekub;
yyyyDwvoywyxkrrywvbydwvoywymwpcuv--dwvoywyeuksxlywvbyafvbufjhyhlucwd,
yyyyHway.kvsyExkdw'hyawvbcukvsybwjsxlcu--whyhxcyhfjsxlyxcuyxjhewvbyrfhlq
yyyyyyRfvsyhxcyufwdcbyxcuyacwuoyzfjuvco--Bwdwowvlkyaklxyhacclyhdkrc,
yyyyRf,ywymwuwpwvyfiydcumxwvlh--crcgxwvlh,ywvbyhlccbh,ywvbymwuh,
yyyyWvbyecofvb,ywygrcwhwvlyukpcu--aklxyklhyawlcuhymffrywvbymrcwuq
yyyy'Lawhywynjkclyhlucwd,ywvbyawpcrchh--skulywefjlyaklxyhgucwbkvsymwvch;
yyyyLxcucylxcymjm.ff,ylxcucylxcyfhguco--lxcucylxcyucb-scchcymrwdfjukvsyhlffb;
yyyyHawudcbylxcyljulrch,yikhxywvbyhcugcvlh--lxcucyufhcydwvoywyhlwlcroykhrcq
yyyyyyAxcvyhxcyhwaylxwlyvjdcufjhymfvmfjuhc--Vwrw'hyfvmcywrr-srfukfjhyakic,
yyyyCvlcucbyhxc,ylxcyhrcvbcu-awkhlcb--kvylxcydkbhlyfiywrrylxcyxfhl;
yyyyDwvkwm-rk.cykvyifudywvbyicwljuc--wvbykvyxwriywyswudcvlymrwb,
yyyyLxkvywvbygwrrkb,yluwpcr-lwkvlcb--dwllcbywrryxcuyrfm.hyaklxybjhlq
yyyyWhylxcoywrryecxcrbyxcuyhlwvbkvs--hfdcykvylcuufuyircbywawo;
yyyyHfdcyhlffbyhlkrrykvyhgccmxrchhyafvbcu--flxcuhyuwkhcbylxckuypfkmcywvbymukcb;
yyyyDfm.cbyxcuyhfdcyaklxymujcrylwjvlkvsh--flxcuhyhgw.cyucgufwmxijryafubh;
yyyyFlxcuhyrff.cbyfvyxcuyaklxygklo--wvbycvnjkucbyxcuyhlwlc,yxcuyvwdcq
yyyy"Axfywulylxfj?yaxfhcybwjsxlcuqyRwbo--kvylxcyifuchlyhcc.'hlylxfjywjsxl?
yyyyWlylxoyhksxlyacyhlwvbymfvifjvbcb--wulylxfjyfiyfjuydfulwryuwmc?
yyyyFiylxkhyaffbywulylxfjylxcysfbbchh?--fiylxkhydfjvlwkv?yfiylxwlygrwkv?
yyyyAxfywulylxfj,yFyvfercyRwbo--lxcc,yfjuyucijsc,yacywbfucq
yyyyWulylxfjyhorpwvyvodgxyfuyscvkjh--fuymcrchlkwryvodgxybkpkvc?
yyyyCpcuo-awoyucswubyfjuyacriwuc--wvbyguflcmlyjh,yjvbchgkhcb:
yyyyHfyfjuymwuwpwvykvyhwiclo--dwoygjuhjcyklhyfvawubyawo,
yyyyHfyfubwkvykl,yFykrrjhlukfjh!--lxwlysffbyifuljvcyawklyfvywrrq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcbyeoylxwlywhhcderwsc--Bwdwowvlk,y.kvsro-efuv,
yyyyWvhacucbylxjhyaklxyscvlrcyrwvsjwsc--sukcpkvsyifuyxcuyxjhewvbyrfhlq
yyyyFiylxwlymwuwpwvylxcyrcwbcu--wvbylxcyaxfrcywhhcdercbyxfhl,
yyyyOfjlxhywvbyefoh,ywvbysuco-xwkucbycrbcuh--wvbylxcysjkbch,ylxjhywvhacucbyhxc:
yyyy".vfaydc,yrk.cyofjuhcrpch,ywydfulwr--bwjsxlcuyfiywy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyFiywvflxcuy.kvsylxcymfvhful--hcc.kvsyifuydoyufowryrfub;
yyyy.vfa,yPkbwuexw'hy.kvs,ydoyiwlxcu--wvbyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs,ydoyrfub,
yyyyVwrw,ykhyxkhyvwdc,ylxcysrfukfjh--xkd,ylx'yjvmfvnjcucbybfyKyhcc.;
yyyy.vfayocywjsxlyfiylxwlysffbydfvwumx--lcrrydc,ynjkm.,yfiydoyecrfpcb,
yyyyFiylxcylkscuyxcuf,yVwrw--hrwocuyfiywyxfhlyfiyifchq"
yyyyyyFiylxcymwuwpwvylxcymwglwkv--lxjhylxcyrfpcro-rkdecbywbbuchhcb,
yyyyHjmxkyawhyxkhyvwdc,ylxcydcumxwvl--"Xcwu,ykrrjhlukfjhynjccv,ydoyhgccmx;
yyyyFiylxkhymwuwpwvylxcymwglwkv--K,yFyRwboyaklxyhacclyhdkrc,
yyyyXkdylxwlyecwuhylxcyvwdcyfiyVwrw--vfaxcucyxwpcylxchcycochyecxcrbq
yyyyCrcgxwvlh,ywvbygwubh,ywvbylkscuh--rov ch,yejiiwrfch,ywvbyecwuh,
yyyyHccyKykvylxkhyluwm.rchhyifuchl--jvkvxweklcbyeoydcv;
yyyyHwpcylxohcri,yfiyxjdwvyicwljuc--vfjsxl,yfuyxjdwvyifud,yK'pcyhccvq
yyyyHfydwoyxc,ylxcy.kvsyfiyOw.hxwh--Dwvkexwbuw,ysjwubyjhyacrrq"[91]
yyyyLfylxcydcumxwvlhylxcvyhxcywvhacucb--lfylxcyrcwbcuyfiylxcyxfhl,
yyyy"Lcrrydcyaxklxcuybfyocyluwpcr!--axklxcuyefjvbyofjuymwuwpwv?"

yyyy_Lxc_yMWGLWKVy_fiylxcymwuwpwvyhgw.cq_

yyyy"LfylxcyucwrdyfiyMxcbk'hyhfpcucksv[92]--lujlx-bkhmcuvkvsyHjewxj,
yyyyHffvylxkhymwuwpwvyakrrycvlcu--luwpcrrkvsykvyhcwumxyfiyswkvq"




EFF.y KKKq


yyyy[93]Lxkh,ylxcyrfpcroygukvmchhyxcwukvs--iufdylxcymwglwkvyfiylxcyewvb,
yyyyAklxylxcymwuwpwvyhclyifuawub--hcc.kvsyhlkrryxcuyufowryrfubq
yyyyRfvsylxckuyzfjuvcoylxufjsxylxcyifuchl--lxufjsxylxcybwu.ywvbywaijrysrcvh;
yyyyLxcvywyrw.cyfiyrfpcrkchlyecwjlo--iuwsuwvlyaklxylxcyrfljhyirfacuh,
yyyyHwaylxfhcydcumxwvlh,yakbcywvbygrcwhwvl--aklxyiuchxysuwhhywvbyhxwboylucch;
yyyyIrfacuhywvbyiujklhyecbcm.cbyklhyefubcuh--axcucylxcyekubhydcrfbkfjhyhwvs:
yyyyKvyklhymrcwuybcrkmkfjhyawlcuh--hfjr-cvmxwvlkvs,ykmoymffr,
yyyyAklxylxckuyxfuhchywrryf'cuacwukcb--lxfjsxlylxcoylxcvylfygrjvscywvbyewlxc;
yyyyWlylxcyhksvwryfiylxcymwglwkv--cvlcucbywrrylxwlygrcwhwvlysufpcq
yyyyWlylxcymrfhcyfiybwoywuukpkvs--lxcucycvmwdgcbylxcoyifuylxcyvksxlq
yyyyyyAxcvylxcydkbvksxlymwdc,ywrryvfkhcrchh--mwdcykvyhkrcvmcybccgywvbyhlkrr,
yyyyAcwuoyhrcglylxcyewvbyfiydcumxwvlh--rf,ywyxcubyfiycrcgxwvlh,[94]
yyyyFftkvsydfkhljucyiufdylxckuylcdgrch--mwdcylfybukv.ylxcylufjercbyhlucwdq
yyyyAxcvylxwlymwuwpwvylxcoyswtcbyfv--aklxylxckuyhrjdecukvsyecwhlhywlyuchl,
yyyyLxcylwdcycrcgxwvlhylxcoyhmcvlcb--lxfhcyakrbyifuchlycrcgxwvlh;
yyyyIfuawubyujhxylxcoyircclywvbyijukfjh--dwbylfyhrwo,ywvbyakrbyaklxyxcwl;
yyyyKuuchkhlkercylxcyfvhcl--fiylxcyujhxkvsygfvbcufjhyecwhlh,
yyyyWhylxcygcw.hyiufdyhfdcyxksxydfjvlwkv--bfavylxcypwrrcoylxjvbcukvsyufrr;
yyyyHlucavyawhywrrylxcyawoyecifucylxcd--aklxylxcyefjsxh,ylxcylujv.hyfiylucch;
yyyyFvylxcoymuwhx'bylfyaxcucylxcyluwpcrrcuh--hrjdecucbyeoylxcyrfljhyrw.cq
yyyyLuwdgrcbybfavyaklxfjlywyhlujssrc--xcrgrchhyfvylxcycwulxylxcoyrwo,
yyyy"Afc,yfx,yafc!"yhxukc.cbyfjlylxcydcumxwvlh--akrbroyhfdcyecswvylfyiro,
yyyyKvylxcyifuchlylxkm.clh'ygrjvskvs;--hfdcyhlffbyswhgkvs,yerkvbyaklxyhrccg;
yyyyWvbylxcycrcgxwvlhybfavyecwlylxcd--aklxylxckuyljh.h,ylxckuylujv.h,ylxcku
yyyyyyyyicclq
yyyyDwvoyhwaylxckuymwdcrhybokvs--dkvsrcbyaklxylxcydcvyfvyiffl,
yyyyWvbykvyiuwvlkmyljdjrlyujhxkvs--akrbroyhlujm.ycwmxyflxcuybfav;
yyyyDwvoydkhcuweroyhxukc.kvs--mwhlylxcdybfavyjgfvylxcycwulx,
yyyyDwvoymrkdecbylxcylucchykvylcuufu--fvylxcyufjsxysufjvbyhljdercbyhfdcq
yyyyLxjhykvypwukfjhyakhcywvbyiwlwr--eoylxcycrcgxwvlhywhhwkrcb,
yyyyRwoylxwlymwuwpwvyhfyacwrlxo--hmwllcucbywrryweufwbyfuyhrwkvq
yyyyHjmx,yhfyicwuijryawhylxcyljdjrl--lxcylxuccyafurbhyhccdcbywrrywggwrrcb,[95]
yyyy"'Lkhywyikucywdkbylx'ycvmwdgdcvl--hwpcyoc,yiroyoc,yifuyofjuyrkpchq
yyyyRf,yofjuygucmkfjhygcwurhyocyluwdgrc--lw.cylxcdyjg,yaxoyiroyhfyiwhl?
yyyyHwpcylxcd,y'lkhywymfddfvypcvljuc--icwuyocyvflylxwlyKybcmckpcq"
yyyyLxjhyl'ycwmxyflxcuyhxukc.cbylxcydcumxwvlh--whykvyicwuylxcoyhmwllcucbyufjvbq
yyyy"OclywswkvyKymwrryjgfvyofj--mfawubh!ylxkv.yocyaxwlyocybfq"
yyyyWrrywufjvbylxkhyiuwvlkmymwuvwsc--uwskvsylxufjsxylxcygufhluwlcyxfhl,
yyyyBwdwowvlk,yhffvywaw.cvcb--aklxyxcuyxcwulywrryijrryfiybucwb;
yyyyLxcucyhxcyhwaywyxkbcfjhyhrwjsxlcu--lxcyaxfrcyafurbydksxlyacrrywggwrq
yyyyLfyhjmxyhksxlhywrryjviwdkrkwu--swtcbylxcynjccvyaklxyrfljhycoch,
yyyyGuchhkvsykvyxcuyeucwlxyaklxylcuufu--hrfaroyufhcyhxcyfvyxcuyicclq
yyyyWvbylxcyicaylxwlyhmwgcbylxcymwuvwsc--icaylxwlyhmwgcbyaklxfjlywyafjvb,
yyyyWrrywlyfvmcyc mrwkdcbylfsclxcu--"Fiyaxfhcybccbhykhylxkhylxcybffd?
yyyyXwlxyvflydksxloyDwvkexwbuw--wbfuwlkfvydcclyucmckpcbq
yyyyWvbyPwkhuwpwvwylxcyxfro[96]--fiylxcyOw.hxwhyrfubywvby.kvs,
yyyyXwpcyvflywrrylxwlydksxlykdgcbcyjh--cucyacyzfjuvkcb,yeccvywbbuchhcb?
yyyyAwhyklybffdcb,ylxwlywrrysffbyfdcvh--eoylxkhymxwvmcyhxfjrbyecyecrkcb!
yyyyAcucyvfygrwvclhyxwgroywbpcuhc?--xfayxwlxyiwlc,yrk.cylxkh,yeciwrr'v!"
yyyyFlxcuhywvhacucbykvylxckuydkhcuo--ucilyfiy.kvbucbywvbyfiyacwrlx,
yyyy"Axfykhylxwlykrr-fdcvcbyafdwv--lxwlyaklxydwvkwm-hlwukvsycoch,
yyyyZfkvcbyfjuyxfhl,ydkhhxwgcbykvywhgcml--wvbyaklxyhmwumcroyxjdwvyifud?
yyyyHjucroywrrylxkhyakm.cbyaklmxmuwil--eoyxcuycpkrygfacuykhyaufjsxl;
yyyyAklmxyfuyhfumcuchhyhxc,yfuybædfv--iwlwrymwjhcyfiywrryfjuyicwuh,
yyyyXcuhykhywrrylxcysjkrl,ylxcydkhcuo--axfyhjmxybwdvkvsyguffiydwoybfjel?
yyyyMfjrbyacyejlyecxfrbylxwlyiwrhcyfvc--djulxcuchh,yewvcyfiywrryfjuyxfhl,
yyyyAklxylxcymrfbh,ylxcybjhl,ylxcyewdeffh--aklxyfjuyhlwpch,yfuyaklxyfjuyxwvbh,
yyyyAcyafjrbyhrwoyxcuyfvylxcykvhlwvl--fiyfjuymwuwpwvylxcyiwlcq"
yyyyEjlyvfyhffvcuyBwdwowvlk--lxckuywggwrrkvsyafubhyxwbyxcwub,
yyyyKvyxcuyhxwdcywvbykvyxcuylcuufu--lfylxcyifuchlyhxwbcyhxcyircbq
yyyyWvbylxwlysjkrlykdgjlcbybucwbkvs--lxjhyxcuyiwlcyecswvylfyawkr:
yyyy"Afcykhydc,yhlkrryf'cuydcyxfpcuh--lxcylcuukikmyauwlxyfiyiwlc;
yyyyVfysffbyifuljvcyc'cuywllcvbhydc--fiyaxwlysjkrlykhylxkhylxcybffd?
yyyyVflywyhkvymwvyKyucdcdecu--vflylxcyrcwhlylfyrkpkvsydwvq
yyyyFuykvybccb,yfuylxfjsxl,yfuyrwvsjwsc--fiyaxwlysjkrlykhylxkhylxcybffd?
yyyyKvyhfdcyifudcuyrkicymfddkllcb[97]--c gkwlcyKyvfaylxcyhkvq
yyyyLfylxkhykvikvklcydkhifuljvc--xcvmcyeoygcvwryzjhlkmcybffdcb?
yyyyRfhlydoyxjhewvb,yrfhlydoy.kvsbfd--iufdydoy.kvbucbyhcgwuwlc;
yyyyHcgwuwlcyiufdyvfercyVwrw--iufdydoymxkrbucvyiwuywawo,
yyyyAkbfacbyfiydoyuksxlijrysjwubkwv--kvylxcyhcugcvl-xwjvlcbyaffbq"
yyyyyyFiylxwlymwuwpwvywlydfuvkvs--lxcvylxcyhwbyhjupkpkvsyica,
yyyyHcllkvsyifulxyiufdylxwlybucwbyucskfv--f'cuylxwlyxkbcfjhymwuvwscysukcpc;
yyyyCwmxywyeuflxcuydfjuvh,yfuyiwlxcu--fuywyhfv,yfuybcwuchlyiukcvb,
yyyyHlkrryPkbwuexw'hygukvmchhyjllcucb--"AxwlylxcyhkvylxwlyKyxwpcybfvc?
yyyyHmwumcroykvylxkhybchculyifuchl--xwbyKydclylxkhyxfhlyfiydcv,
yyyyEoylxcycrcgxwvlhylxcoygcukhx--lxkhykhylxufjsxydoyrjm.rchhyiwlc;
yyyyWyhlkrryrcvslxcvkvsyrkicyfiyhfuufa--Kyxcvmcifulxydjhlyhwbroyrcwbq
yyyyCucyxkhybchlkvcbybwoyvfvcybkclx--lxkhyfiywscbyhccuhylxcyrfuc;
yyyyLxcucifucywdyvflyKylffyluwdgrcb--eoylxkhyxcubyfiyijukfjhyecwhlhq
yyyyCpcuoybccbyfiyrkpkvsydfulwr--eoyfpcu-ujrkvsyiwlcykhybfvcq
yyyyOclyvfyhkvyxwpcyKymfddkllcb--kvydoyerwdcrchhykviwvmo,
yyyyLfybchcupcylxkhybkucybkhwhlcu--fuykvyafub,yfuybccb,yfuylxfjsxlq
yyyyIfuylxcymxffhkvsyfiydoyxjhewvb--wucylxcysjwubkwvhyfiylxcyafurb,
yyyyWvsuoywucylxcysfbh,yuczcmlcb--ifuylxcyvfercyVwrw'hyhw.c?
yyyyIufdydoyrfubylxkhyrfvsybkpfumcdcvl--lxufjsxylxckuygfacuybfyKycvbjucq"
yyyyLxjhylxcyvferchlyfiywrryafdcv--lfyecawkryxcuyiwlcyecswv,
yyyyLxcybchculcbyBwdwowvlk--aklxylxchcyhwbywvbyekllcuyafubh;
yyyyAklxyhfdcyPcbw-ucwbkvsyEuwxdkvh--lxwlyhjupkpcbylxwlyhmwllcucbyxfhl,
yyyyLxcvyhxcyacvlyxcuyawoykvyhwbvchh--rk.cylxcyofjvsydffv'hyhkm.rcygwrc,
yyyyWvbycucyrfvsywydksxloymklo--lxwlywiirkmlcbynjccvybucayvcwu:
yyyy'Lawhylxcy.kvsyfiyMxcbk'hymklo--lujlx-bkhmcuvkvsyHjewxjq
yyyyHmwvlroymrwbykvyxwriywyswudcvl--cvlcucbyhxcylxwlyhlwlcroylfav;
yyyyXcuybkhljuecb,ycdwmkwlc,yauclmxcb--aklxybkhxcpcrrcbyxwku,yjvawhxcb,
yyyyRk.cywydwvkwm,yfvawub-dfpkvs--hwaylxwlymklo'hyafvbcukvsylxufvs;
yyyySwtkvsyfvyxcuywhyhxcycvlcucb--lfylxcydfvwumx'hyufowryhcwl;
yyyyWrrylxcyefohyxcuyifflhlcghyifrrfacb--kvylxckuymjukfjhyswdchfdcygrwo;[98]
yyyyMkumrcbyufjvbyeoylxchcyhxcyawvbcucb--vcwuylxcyufowrygwrwmcyswlcq
yyyyIufdylxwlygwrwmcyrfiloylcuuwmc--xcuylxcydflxcuyfiylxcy.kvs
yyyyHwa,ywvbylxjhyxcuyvjuhcywbbuchhcbyhxc--"Sf,ywvbyrcwbylxwlyawvbcucuykv!
yyyyHwbyhxcyufpch,yaklxfjlywyucijsc--lufjercbyeoylxfhcyswtkvsydcv;
yyyyOclykvyifudyhfyeuksxl,ykuuwbkwlc--khyfjuygwrwmcyaxcucyhxcydfpchq
yyyyLxfjsxyhfydwvkwm-rk.c,yxwri-mrflxcb--rk.cyXcwpcv'hyrfvs-cocbynjccvyhxc
yyyyyyyyhccdhq"
yyyyHxcylxfhcymufabkvsydcvybkhgcuhkvs--njkm.roylfylxcygwrwmcylfg
yyyyDwbcyxcuydfjvl--wvbykvywdwtcdcvl--xcuylxcydflxcu-njccvywbbuchhcb:
yyyy"Lxjhylxfjsxyefacbywvbyafuvyaklxyhfuufa--hjmxywyhxkvkvsyifudylxfjyacwu'hl,
yyyyWhylxufjsxydju.oymrfjbhylxcyrksxlvkvs--lcrrydcyaxfylxfjywulywvbyaxcvmc:
yyyyIfuylxoyifudykhydfucylxwvyxjdwv--fiywrryfuvwdcvlybchgfkrcb:
yyyyDcvylxfjyicwu'hlyvfl,yjvwllcvbcb--kvymcrchlkwryecwjloyhwicq"
yyyyyyXcwukvsylxjhyxcuyscvlrcyrwvsjwsc--Exkdw'hybwjsxlcuydwbcyucgro,
yyyy".vfaydcyrk.cylxohcriywydfulwr--wybkhluchhcb,ybcpflcbyakic;
yyyyFiykrrjhlukfjhyuwmcywvyxwvbdwkb--dw.kvsyaxcucyKyakrrydkvcyxfdc;
yyyyFvylxcyufflhywvbyakrb-iujklhyiccbkvs--rfvcro,ywlylxcyiwrryfiycpcq
yyyySkilcbyaklxyjvvjdecu'bypkuljch--khydoylujc,ydoyiwklxijryrfub,
yyyyWvbyKyhlkrrylxcyxcufyifrrfacb--rk.cyxkhyhxwbfayfvylxcyawoq
yyyy'Lawhyxkhyiwlc,yaklxybchg'uwlcyifvbvchh--lfygjuhjcylxcyrfpcyfiygrwo,
yyyyWvbykvygrwoyhjebjcbywvbyujkvcb--cvlcucbyxcyofvyrfvcroyaffb;
yyyyXkd,ywuuwocbykvyejlyfvcyswudcvl,--rk.cywydwbdwvyawvbcukvsyakrb,
yyyyLfymfvhfrcydoyvfercyxjhewvb--Kylffycvlcucbylxcybccgyaffb;
yyyyXcyaklxkvylxwlybucwuoyifuchl--ifuyhfdcymwjhc,ylfydcyjv.vfav,
yyyyAkrbyaklxyxjvscu,yucilyfiyucwhfv--lxwlyfvcyhkvsrcyufecyxcyrfhlq
yyyyKyaklxyejlyfvcyufec,yxkdyvw.cb[99]--iuwvlkm,ywvbyaklxydkvbybkhcwhcb,
yyyyIfrrfakvsylxufjsxylxcyefjvbrchhyifuchl--dwvoywyvksxlyKyxwbyvflyhrcgl;
yyyyLxcv,yaxcvyKyxwbyhjv.ylfyhrjdecu--dcylxcyerwdcrchhyrcwpkvsylxcuc,
yyyyXwriydoyswudcvlyxwpkvsyhcpcucb--xcyxkhyhkvrchhymfvhfulyircb;
yyyyHcc.kvsyxkd,ydoyfjlmwhlyxjhewvb--vksxlywvbybwoywdyKymfvhjdcb:
yyyyXkdyKyhccyvfl,ycpcuyhxkvkvs--rk.cylxcyrfljhymjg,yecrfpcb;
yyyyIkvbyxkdyvfl,ydfhlyrk.cylx'ykddfulwrh--rfubyfiywrr,ydoyrkic,ydoyhfjrq"
yyyyyyCpcvywhylxjh,yaklxycochyf'cuirfakvs--jllcucbyhxcyxcuyhwbyrwdcvl,
yyyyHwbyxcuhcri,yhwbyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--bkbylxcydflxcuynjccvywbbuchh:
yyyy"Bacrryaklxydc,ylxcv,yvfercyRwbo--bccgylxcyzfoykvylxccyKyiccr,
yyyyWvbylxcyhcupwvlhyfiydoyxfjhcxfrb--hxwrrylxoyufowryxjhewvbyhcc.;
yyyyXwgroyxklxcuyxcydwoyawvbcu--whyxcyufwdhywefjlylxcyafurb:
yyyyBacrrkvsyxcucykvygcwmcywvbyxfvfju--lxfjylxoyxjhewvbyakrlyuczfkvq"
yyyyyyLfylxcy.kvsyfiyMxcbk'hydflxcu--Bwdwowvlkydwbcyucgro;
yyyy"Fvylxchcylcudh,yFyvjuhcyfiyxcufch!--Kyaklxylxccydwoydw.cywefbc:
yyyyLxwlyKycwlyvflyeuf.cvypkmljwrh[100]--awhxyvflyicclyaklxydcvkwryxwvb:[101]
yyyyVfuyaklxyhluwvscuydcvyxwpcymfvpcuhc--kvydoymxwhlc,yhcmrjbcbyhlwlc;
yyyyKiylxwlywvoydwvybcdwvbydc--ecyxcygjvkhxcb;ykiywswkv,
yyyyEcyxcygjlylfybcwlxyfvylx'ykvhlwvl--lxkhylxcypfaylxwlyKyxwpcyhafuvq
yyyyFvro,ykiylxcoyhcc.ydoyxjhewvb--xfroyEuwxdkvhyakrryKyhccq
yyyyEcydoylcudhyeoylxccywmmcglcb--srwbroyakrryKyhfzfjuvyxcuc,
yyyyEjlyfvyflxcuylcudhyvfyhfzfjuv--akrrylxkhyxcwulyuchfrpcbywbdklq"
yyyyyyLxcvylfyxcuyaklxyzfoijryhgkukl--hgw.cylxcydflxcuyfiylxcy.kvs:
yyyy"Whylxfjyakrlyhxwrrywrryecyfubcucb--ecylxfjyerchl,yhkvmcyhjmxylxoypfaq"
yyyyHgcw.kvsylxjhylfyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--bkbylxcyufowrydflxcuylxcv,
yyyyKvylxchcyafubhywbbuchhyxcuybwjsxlcu--ofjvsyHjvwvbwyawhyxcuyvwdc:
yyyy"Hccylxkhyxwvbdwkb,ydoyHjvwvbw--skilcbyaklxywyifudybkpkvc;
yyyyHxcykvywscylxoyrfpcroymfdgccu--ecyhxcylfylxccywhywyiukcvb;
yyyyZfkvcbyaklxyxcuykvyhacclymfddjvkfv--lw.cylxoygrcwhjucyaklxfjlyicwuq"
yyyyOfjvsyHjvwvbw,ywrryuczfkmkvs--lfyxcuyfavywefbcyacvlyewm.,
yyyyLw.kvsyaklxyxcuyBwdwowvlk--mkumrcbyaklxyxcuypkuskvygccuhq




EFF.y KPq


yyyyBwdwowvlkyaxcvybchculkvs--ufowryVwrwyircb,ycucyrfvs
yyyyErwtkvsykvylxcyifuchlyzjvsrc--xcywydksxloyikucyecxcrb;
yyyyLxcvmcywhyfiywyrkpkvsyeckvs--iufdylxcydkbhlywypfkmcyxcyxcwub:
yyyy"Xwhlcv,yVwrw!"yfilywvbyrfjbro--"Gjvowhrf.w,yxwhlc,"yklymukcbq
yyyy"Icwuylxfjyvfl,"y.kvsyVwrwywvhacucb--grjvskvsykvylxcyujbboyirwdc;
yyyyLxcucyxcyhwaylxcy.kvsyfiyhcugcvlh--rokvs,ymfkrcbykvlfywyukvsq
yyyyLxcucyaklxyifrbcbyxwvbhylxcyhcugcvl--lucderkvs,ylxjhylfyVwrwyhgw.c:
yyyy"Dc,y.wu.flw.w,ylxcyHcugcvl--.vfa,ylxfjyhfpcucksvyfiydcv;
yyyyVwuwbw,ylxcyiwdfjhyxcudkl[102]--Kybcmckpcb,ylxcyxfroyhwsc;
yyyyXcykvyuksxlcfjhykvbksvwlkfv--hdflcydcyaklxylxkhywaijrymjuhc:
yyyyHlwoylxfjylxcucywhyfvcyjvdfpkvs--lkrry.kvsyVwrwygwhhkvsyeo,
yyyyRcwbylxccyxcvmc;yhwpcyfvroyVwrw--vfvcymwvyiuccylxccyiufdylxkhymjuhcq
yyyyLxufjsxylxkhygflcvlyc cmuwlkfv--Kyvfyhlcgyxwpcygfacuylfydfpc;
yyyyKylxcyawoylfyerkhhyakrryhxfaylxcc--kiylxfjyhwp'hlydcyiufdylxkhyiwlcq
yyyyKyakrryhxfaylxccyvfercyiukcvbhxkg--hcugcvlyvfvcykhyrk.cylfydc;
yyyyRksxlroyhxwrryKyacksx,yjgrkilydc--kvylxoyxwvb,yaklxyhgccb,yFy.kvsq"
yyyyLxjhyaxcvyhgw.cylxcy.kvsyfiyhcugcvlh--lfywyikvscu'hyhktcyxcyhxuwv.;
yyyyXkdyaxcvyVwrwyrksxlroyrkilcb--lfylxcyjvejuvkvsyhgwmcyxcygwhhcbq
yyyyLfylxcywkuywrrymffrywvbylcdgcuwlc--eufjsxlyxkd,yeoylxcyirwdcyjvucwmxcbq
yyyyWhyxcyiwkvyfvylx'ycwulxyafjrbygrwmcyxkd--lxjhy.wu.flw.wyecswvq
yyyy"Dfpcylxfjyvfa,yFy.kvs,ywvbyhrfaro--whylxfjydfpchl,ymfjvlylxoyhlcghq
yyyyLxcvylxcyechlyfiywrrysffbyifuljvc--akrryKyskpcylxcc,ydksxloywudcb!"
yyyyCucylxcylcvlxyhlcgyxcyxwbymfjvlcb[103]--xkdylxcyhjbbcvyhcugcvlyekl:
yyyyWhyxcyeklyxkd,yfvylxcykvhlwvl--wrryxkhy.kvsroyifudyawhymxwvscbq
yyyyLxcucyxcyhlffb,ywvbyswtcbykvyafvbcu--Vwrw,yfvyxkhywrlcucbyifudq
yyyyKvyxkhygufgcuyhxwgcylxcyhcugcvl--hwaylxcyhfpcucksvyfiydcvq
yyyyLxcvy.wu.flw.wylxcyhcugcvl--lxjhylfyVwrwymfdifulyhgw.c:
yyyy"Lxufjsxydoygfacuylxoyifudykhywrlcucb--rchlylxfjyhxfjrb'hlyecy.vfavyfiydcvq
yyyyXcylxufjsxyaxfdylxfj'ulylxjhywiirkmlcb--Vwrw,yaklxykvlcvhchlysukci,
yyyyLxufjsxydoygfkhfv,yhxwrrykvywvsjkhx--cpcuybacrryaklxkvylxoyhfjrq
yyyyWrryxkhyefboyhlccgcbykvygfkhfv--lkrryxcyiuccylxccyiufdylxoyafc,
yyyyHxwrryxcybacrryaklxkvylxccygukhfv'b--kvylxcycmhlwmoyfiygwkvq
yyyyHfyiufdyxkd,yeoyaxfd,ylxfjyerwdcrchh!--hjiicuchlyhjmxyjvafulxoyaufvs,
yyyyEoylxcymjuhcyKyrwoyjgfvyxkd--doybcrkpcuwvmcyhxwrryecyaufjsxlq
yyyyIcwuyvflylxfjylxcyljh.cbyakrbyefwu--ifcdwvyicwuyvflylxfj,yFy.kvs,
yyyyVcklxcuyEuwxdkvyicwu,yvfuyHwsch[104]--hwicylxufjsxydoygucpwkrkvsygfacuq
yyyy.kvs,ylxkhyhwrjlwuoygfkhfv--skpchylfylxccyvfuysukciyvfuygwkv;
yyyyKvylxcyewllrc,ymxkciyfiyUwzwh--pkmlfuoykhycpcuylxkvcq
yyyySfylxfjyifulx,ylxohcriylxjhyvwdkvs--Pwxjmw,ylxcymxwukflccu,
yyyyLfylxcyufowryUkljgwuvw--kvylxcybkmcywrr-h.krijryxc;
yyyyLfyWofbxow'hygrcwhwvlymklo--hfpcucksvyfiyVkhxwbxw!ysf;
yyyyXcyxkhyh.krrykvybkmcyakrryskpcylxcc--ifuylxoyh.krrykvylwdkvsyhlccbh:
yyyyFiyK.hxaà.j'hyvfercyrkvcwsc--xcyakrryecylxoyechlyfiyiukcvbhq
yyyyLxfjylxcyh.krrykvybkmcygfhhchhkvs--hffvyakrlyukhcywswkvylfyerkhh;
yyyyAklxylxoymfvhfulyucjvklcb--okcrbyvflyjgylxoyhfjrylfysukciq
yyyyLxfjylxoy.kvsbfd,ylxfjylxoymxkrbucv--akrlyucswkv,ylxcylujlxyKyhgcw.q
yyyyAxcvywswkvylxfjyafjrb'hlyecxfrbylxcc--kvylxoygufgcuyifud,yFy.kvs,
yyyyHjddfvydcylfylxoyucdcdeuwvmc--wvbylxkhyswudcvlygjlylxfjyfv:
yyyyKvylxkhyswudcvlymrwbyuchjd'hlylxfj--kvhlwvlroylxoygufgcuyifudq"
yyyyHwokvsylxjh,yfiypchlhymcrchlkwr--swpcyxcylfylxcy.kvsywygwkuq[105]
yyyyWvby.kvsyVwrw,ylxjhykvhlujmlcb--skilcbyaklxylxchcydwskmyufech,
yyyyKvhlwvlroylxcy.kvsyfiyhcugcvlh--pwvkhxcbyiufdyxkhyhksxlywawoq




EFF.y Pq


yyyyPwvkhxcbylxjhylxcy.kvsyfiyHcugcvlh--hclyVkhxwbxw'hyuwzwyifulx,
yyyyUkljgwuvw'hyufowrymklo--fvylxcylcvlxybwoycvlcucbyxcq
yyyyHluwksxlyecifucylxcyufowryguchcvmc--"PwxjmwywdyK,"yxcyhwkb,
yyyy"Kvylxcyh.krryfiylwdkvsyxfuhch--fvylxcycwulxykhyvflydoygccu;
yyyyJhcydc,yaxcucylxcybkiikmjrlymfjvhcr--axcucylxfjyawvl'hlylxcybc lcufjhyxwvb;
yyyyKvylxcywulyfiybuchhkvsypkwvbh[106]--Kywdyh.krijrywefpcywrrq
yyyyAxwlhfc'cuylxcywul,yaxwlcpcu--ecydfhlybkiikmjrlylfybf,
yyyyKyakrryhlukpcylfyc cmjlcykl--lw.cydcylfylxoyhcupkmc,y.kvsq"

yyyyUKLJGWUVWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Pwxjmw,yKyekbylxccyacrmfdc--wrrylxkhyhcupkmcyhxwrlylxfjybf,
yyyyFvydoyxfuhch'yuwgkbydflkfv--bccgroykhydoydkvbycvswscbq
yyyyLw.cylxfjylxcvyfvylxccylxcyfiikmc--lxwlydoyhlccbhyecyircclyfiyiffl,
yyyyFiydoyxfuhcyecylxfjylxcydwhlcu--xjvbucbyxjvbucbhykhylxoygwo:[107]
yyyyCpcuyhxwrlylxfjyxwpcyifuymfduwbch--PwuhxvcowywvbyZkpwrw:
yyyyAklxylxchcylafygjuhjcylxoygrcwhjuc--Pwxjmw,ywekbcyaklxydcq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcb,ybkbyVwrw,yxfvfjucb--eoy.kvsyUkljgwuvwyrfvs,
yyyyAklxyPwuhxvcowykvylxwlymklo--wvbyaklxyZkpwrwywekbc:
yyyyLxcucywefbcyxc,yhwbroylxkv.kvs--fiyPkbwuexw'hybwjsxlcuyhlkrrq
yyyyKvylxcycpcvkvs,ycpcuoycpcvkvs--jllcucbyxcylxkhyhkvsrcypcuhc;
yyyy"Axcucykhyhxc,yeoylxkuhlywvbyxjvscu--afuv,ywvbyacwuo,ygkfjhyhlkrr,
yyyyLxkv.kvsyfiyxcuyjvakhcyxjhewvb--kvyaxfhcyguchcvmcykhyhxcyvfa!"
yyyyLxjhylxcyuwzw,ycpcuyhgcw.kvs--Zkpwrwyfvcyvksxlywbbuchhcb;
yyyy"Axfykhyhxc,yifuyaxfdylxfjysukcpchl?--Pwxjmw,yKyiwkvyafjrbyxcwuq"
yyyy[108]WvhacucbylxjhylxcyufowryVwrw--"Lfywydwvyfiyhcvhcyecucil,
yyyyFvmcyecrfvscbywygccurchhyrwbo--dfhlykvikudyfiyafubyawhyxc;
yyyyIufdyhfdcymwjhcyiufdyxcuybkhhcpcucb--acvlylxwlyiuwvlkmydwvywawo,
yyyyKvyxkhyiffrkhxyhfjrylxjhygwulcb--awvbcuhyxc,yeoyhfuufayuwm.cb;
yyyyVksxlywvbybwo,ywvbyhlkrryifuycpcu--eoyxkhygwumxkvsysukciymfvhjdcb:
yyyyVksxlroyeuffbkvsyf'cuyxkhyhfuufah--hkvshyxcylxkhyhwbyhkvsrcypcuhcq
yyyyF'cuylxcyaxfrcyakbcycwulxywyawvbcucu--mxwvmc-wrksxlkvsykvyhfdcygrwmc,
yyyyBacrrhylxwlyafijrydwv,yjvafulxo,--cpcuyaw.cijryaklxyxkhysukciq
yyyyXkdylxwlyvfercyrwboyifrrfakvs--kvylxcyifuchlyrfvcywvbybucwb,
yyyyRkpch,yfiylxwlyewbydwvyifuhw.cv--xwubyklykhylfyhwo,yhxcyrkpch!
yyyyRfvc,ywvbyofjvs,ylxcyawohyjv.vfakvs--jvbchcupkvsyfiyhjmxyiwlc,
yyyyGkvchyhxcylxcucyaklxylxkuhlywvbyxjvscu--xwubyklykhylfyhwo,yhxcyrkpchq
yyyyKvylxwlypwhlywvbywaijryifuchl--xwjvlcbyeoyikcumcyecwhlhyfiyguco,
yyyyEoyxcuyrfubyhxcyufwdhyifuhw.cv--xwgrchh,yeoylxwlyrjm.rchhyrfubq"
yyyyLxjhyucdcdecukvsyBwdwowvlk--bkbyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvsyjv.vfav,
yyyyRfvsyaklxkvylxwlybacrrkvsyhfzfjuv--kvylxcygwrwmcyfiylxcy.kvsq




EFF.y PKq


yyyyVwrwylxjhyecucilyfiy.kvsbfd--aklxyxkhyakicylfyhrwpcuoyhjv.,
yyyyIfulxy.kvsyExkdwyhcvlylxcyEuwxdkvh--Vwrwylxufjsxylxcyafurbylfyhcc.q
yyyyLxjhylxcyufowryExkdwymxwuscbylxcd--aklxywejvbwvlyacwrlxyhjggrkcb:--
yyyy"Sfyocyvfaywvbyhcc.y.kvsyVwrw--Bwdwowvlkyhcc.,ydoymxkrb:
yyyyWvb,ywmxkcpcbylxkhyacksxloyejhkvchh--ifjvbyVkhxwbxw'hyufowryrfub,
yyyyAxfhfc'cuyhxwrryxklxcuyeukvsylxcd--hxwrrywylxfjhwvby.kvcyucmckpc;
yyyyWvbywyufowrysuwvlyifuydwkvlcvwvmc[109]--fiywypkrrwscyrk.cywylfavq
yyyyKiyvfuyxklxcuyBwdwowvlk--vfuy.kvsyVwrwydwoyecyeufjsxl,
yyyy.vfayacyaxcucylxcoywuc,yukmxysjcubfv--hlkrryacyskpc,ylcvyxjvbucby.kvcq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcb,ylxcyzfoijryEuwxdkvh--acvlylfycpcuoymrkdcyfiycwulx,
yyyyLxufjsxylxcymklkch,ylxufjsxylxcy.kvsbfdh--hcc.kvsyVwrwywvbyxkhynjccv:
yyyyVwrw,yfuy.kvsyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--kvyvfygrwmcydksxlylxcoyecxfrbq
yyyyLxcvywyEuwxdkv,yvwdcbyHjbcpw--mwdcylfygrcwhwvlyMxcbk-gju;
yyyyLxcucyaklxkvylxcy.kvsroygwrwmc--xcyPkbwuexw'hybwjsxlcuyhwa,
yyyyHlwvbkvsyaklxylxcyiwkuyHjvwvbw--fvywyufowryxfrkbwoq[110]
yyyyAklxyxcuyecwjloyfvmcyhfygccurchh--afulxoyvfayfiyrkllrcyguwkhc,
yyyyRk.cylxcyhjv-rksxlyicceroyhxkvkvs--lxufjsxylxcybkdvchhyfiywymrfjbq
yyyySwtkvsyfvylxcyrwusc-cocbygukvmchh--bjrrykvyrff.,ywvbyawhlcbyhlkrr,
yyyyRf,yxcylxfjsxl,y.kvsyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--gfvbcukvsylxjhyaklxkvyxkhydkvbq--

yyyyHJBCPWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"CpcvywhyfvmcyKyafvlylfyhccyxcu--hjmxykhyofvbcuyafdwv'hyifud,
yyyyKydoyafu.yxwpcybfvc,yecxfrbkvs--rk.cylxcysfbbchhyafurb-wbfucb,
yyyyRk.cylxcyijrrydffv,ybwu.royecwjlcfjh--aklxyxcuyiwkuywvbyhacrrkvsyeucwhlh,
yyyyXcu,ylxcynjccv,ylxwlyaklxyxcuyeuksxlvchh--dw.chycwmxymrkdcybcpfkbyfiysrffd,
yyyyAklxyxcuyrfljhycochyc gwvbkvs--rk.cyDwvdwlxw'hynjccvybkpkvc;[111]
yyyyRk.cylxcydffvrksxlykvyklhyijrvchh--lxcybchkucyfiywrrylxcyafurbq
yyyyIufdyPkbwuexw'hygrcwhwvlyawlcuh--xcuyeoymujcryiwlcygrjm.cbyjg,
yyyy[112]Rk.cywyrfljhyirfacuyjgufflcb--aklxylxcydkucywvbybkulywufjvb:
yyyyRk.cylxcygwrrkbyvksxl,yaxcvyUwxj[113]--hawrrfahyjgylxcybwu.cvcbydffv:
yyyyIfuyxcuyxjhewvbyawvyaklxyhfuufa--rk.cywyscvlrcyhlucwdybukcbyjg;
yyyyRk.cywygffr,yaxcucybuffghylxcyrfljh--axcvmcylxcywiiuksxlcbyekubhyxwpcyircb,
yyyyEoylxcycrcgxwvl'hygufefhmkh--kvyklhynjkclybcglxhybkhljuecbq
yyyyLcvbcu,yhfil-rkdecb,ykvywygwrwmc--ikl,yfiygucmkfjhyhlfvch,ylfybacrrq
yyyyRk.cylxcyrfljhyhlcd,yjgufflcb--gwumxcbywvbyaklxcucbyeoylxcyhjvq
yyyyIwkuykvyifud,ykvyhfjrywhyscvcufjh--afulxoyfiywrryerkhh,yjverchh'b,
yyyyRk.cylxcyofjvsydffv'hyhrcvbcuymuchmcvl--kvylxcyxcwpcvhyeoybwu.ymrfjbh
yyyyyyyypckrcbq
yyyyAkbfacbyvfayfiywrryrfpc'hygrcwhjuch--fiyxcuyvfercy.kvybchgfkrcb,
yyyyAuclmxcb,yecwukvsyrkic,yxcuyxjhewvb--kvyxcuyxfgcywswkvylfyhccq
yyyyLfylxcyjvwbfuvcb,ywyxjhewvb[114]--khylxcymxkcichlyfuvwdcvl;
yyyyFiyxcuyxjhewvbykiyifuhw.cv--hxcykvyhgrcvbfjuykhyvflyeuksxlq
yyyyBkiikmjrlydjhlyecylxcylukwr--bfchy.kvsyVwrw,yucilyfiyxcu,
yyyyHlkrryuclwkvyxkhyauclmxcbyefbo--vfuyaklxyhfuufaygkvcywawo?
yyyyXcuyaklxyxcuybwu.yirfakvsyluchhch--aklxyxcuyrfvsywvbyrfljhycoch,
yyyyAfulxoyfiywrryzfo,ylxjhyzforchh--whyKyhcc,ydoyhfjrykhyaujvsq
yyyyLfylxcyijulxchlyhxfucyfiyhfuufa--axcvyakrrygwhhylxkhyecwjlcfjhynjccv?
yyyyLfyxcuyxjhewvbyucjvklcb--whylxcydffv'hyeukbc[115]ylfylxcydffv?
yyyyXcuyucmfpcukvsyhxwrry.kvsyVwrw--lfyxkhyxwggkvchhyucljuv,
yyyy.kvs,ywrecklybchgfkrcbyfiy.kvsbfd--xcyxkhyucwrdyhxwrryucwhhjdc;
yyyyKvylxckuywscywvbypkuljchycnjwr--cnjwrykvylxckuyvfercyuwmc,
yyyyXcywrfvcyfiyxcuykhyafulxo--afulxoyhxcywrfvcyfiyxkdq
yyyyDcyechccdhyklyfiylxwlygccurchh--fiylxwlyeuwpcywvbygujbcvly.kvs,
yyyyLfymfvhfrcylxcyrfowrymfvhful--gkvkvsyifuyxcuyxjhewvb'hyhksxlq
yyyyXcuyakrryKywbbuchhyaklxymfdiful--aklxyxcuydffvrk.cysrfakvsyiwmcq
yyyyXcuyaklxyafcyfvmcyjvwmnjwkvlcb--afijryvfaywvbyrfhlykvylxfjsxlq"
yyyyLxjhyaxcvyxcyxwbyswtcbywvbyvflcb--wrryxcuydwu.h,yxcuyicwljuchyacrr,
yyyyLfylxcybwjsxlcuyfiy.kvsyExkdw--lxjhylxcyhwscyHjbcpwyhgw.c:
yyyy"KywdyvwdcbyHjbcpw,yrwbo--K,ylxoyeuflxcu'hymxfhcvyiukcvb,
yyyyEoy.kvsyExkdw'hyufowrydwvbwlc--xklxcuymfdcykvyhcwumxyfiylxccq
yyyyAcrrylxoyhkuc,ylxoyufowrydflxcu--acrrylxoyvfercyeuclxucvyiwuc,
yyyyWvbyacrryiwucylxfhcyrkllrcykviwvlh--acrrywvbyxwggoywucylxcoyeflxq
yyyyIfuylxoyhw.cylxoymfjvlrchhy.kvbucb--hklywhylxfjsxyfiyhcvhcyecucil:
yyyyHcc.kvsylxccywyxjvbucbyEuwxdkvh--vfaywucyawvbcukvsyf'cuylxcycwulxq"
yyyyHxcyvfyhffvcuy.vcayHjbcpw--Bwdwowvlk,yfiyxcuy.kv,
yyyyDwvoywynjchlkfvywh.cbykvyfubcu--wvbyfiycpcuoyiukcvbyecrfpcbq
yyyyWvbylxcybwjsxlcuyfiyPkbwuexw--iuccroyacgl,yhfyhjbbcvylxjh
yyyyFvyHjbcpw,yechlyfiyEuwxdkvh--swtkvs,yfvyxcuyeuflxcu'hyiukcvbq
yyyyXcuyecxcrbylxcyofjvsyHjvwvbw--accgkvs,yawhlcbyaklxybkhluchh,
yyyyWhyhxcylxjhyxcuyhcmuclymfvpcuhc--aklxylxcyakhcyHjbcpwyxcrbq
yyyyLxjhyhxcyhgw.cyjvlfyxcuydflxcu--"Rf,yxfayiwhlyfjuyxwvbdwkbyaccgh,
yyyyHkvmcyxcuydcclkvsyaklxylxcyEuwxdkv--axfyhxcykh,ylxfjyvfaydwo'hly.vfaq"
yyyyIfulxylxcy.kvsyfiyMxcbk'hydflxcu--iufdylxcykvvcuymxwdecuyacvl,
yyyyWvbyhxcygwhhcbyaxcucyaklxylxcyEuwxdkv--lxwlydohlcukfjhyafdwvyhlffbq
yyyyLxcdylxcydflxcuynjccvyHjbcpw--ewbcyecifucyxcuyguchcvmcyhlwvb;
yyyyWvbyhxcywh.cb,y"Axfhcyakic,yaxfhcybwjsxlcu--dwoylxkhyvfercyhluwvscuyec?
yyyyIufdyxcuy.kvbucbyxfaybkhhcpcucb--iufdyxcuyxjhewvb,ylxcyhfil-cocb?
yyyyKhyhxcy.vfavylfylxcc,yFyEuwxdkv--mwvhlylxfjylcrryiufdyaxcvmcyhxcymwdc?
yyyyLxkhyKyiwkvyafjrbyxcwu,ywvbymrcwuro--wrryxcuyhluwvscywvbyafvbcufjhylwrcq
yyyyLcrrydcywrrylxwlyxwlxyeciwrrcv--lfylxkhyxcwpcv-ifudcb,ygrwkvroylcrrq"
yyyyEchlyfiyEuwxdkvh,ylxjhyHjbcpw--eoylxcydflxcuynjccvywbbuchhcb,
yyyyWrrylxcylujlxyfiyBwdwowvlk--hkllkvsywlyxkhycwhc,ybcmrwucbq




EFF.y PKKq


yyyy"KvyPkbwuexwylxcyzjhlydfvwumx--Exkdw,ykvyxkhysrfuoybacrrhq
yyyyFiylxwly.kvsykhyhxcylxcybwjsxlcu--Bwdwowvlkykhyxcuyvwdc;
yyyyWvbylxcyuwzwyfiyVkhxwbxw--Vwrw,yPkuwhcvw'hyhfv,
yyyyFiylxwly.kvsykhyhxcylxcymfvhful--Gjvowhrf.wyvwdcb,ylxcyAkhcq
yyyyXkdykvygrwoyxkhyeuflxcuyafuhlcb--hgfkrcbyfiyucwrdylxcy.kvsyfiycwulx:
yyyyXcyhclyifulxyaklxyBwdwowvlk--axklxcuykhyjv.vfavyfiydcvq
yyyyIfuylxcyhw.cyfiyBwdwowvlk--awvbcuyacywefjlylxcycwulx;
yyyyLkrryKyifjvbyofvyvfercyafdwv--kvylxcygwrwmcyfiyofjuyhfvq
yyyyRk.cylfyxcuyfiydfulwryafdcv--khylxcucyvfvc,yxcuyecwjlo'hygccu;
yyyyKvylxcydkbhl,yeclaccvyxcuycoceufah--iufdyxcuyekulxywyrfpcroydfrc,
yyyyBwu.yawhyhccv,ywvbyrk.cywyrfljh--lxwlyxwlxypwvkhxcbyiufdydoyhksxl,
yyyyMfpcucbyfpcuyaklxybcikrcdcvl--rk.cylxcydffvyecxkvbywymrfjbq
yyyyLxkhyhfilydwu.yfiygcuicmlyecwjlo--iwhxkfvcbylxjhyeoyEuwxdw'hyhcri,
yyyyWhywlymxwvscylxcydffv'hylxkvymuchmcvl--fvroybkdywvbyiwkvlroysrcwdhq
yyyyOclyxcuyecwjloykhyvflyiwbcb--mrfjbcbyf'cuyaklxylfkrywvbydkuc
yyyyLxfjsxyhxcyec,yklyhxkvchywggwucvl,yrk.cylxcyvwlkpcyjvaufjsxlysfrbq
yyyyAklxylxwlyecwjlcfjhyifudyofvyafdwv--skilcbyaklxylxwlyrfpcroydfrc,
yyyyKvhlwvly.vcayKyifuylxcyGukvmchh--whylxcyxcwlyecluwohylxcyikucq"

yyyyPUKXWBWHPWy_hgw.c_q

yyyyLfyHjbcpwywhyhxcyrkhlcvcb--jllcukvsylxjhyxkhyhluwvscybkhmfjuhc:
yyyyWrrylxcybjhlylxwlydfrcymfvmcwrkvs--ofjvsyHjvwvbwyawhxcbywawoq
yyyyEoylxcyfehmjukvsybjhlyjvmrfjbcb--hxkvkvsyfjlylxwlydfrcywggcwucb;
yyyyFvylxcyeufayfiyBwdwowvlk--rk.cylxcyjvmrfjbcbydffvykvyxcwpcvq
yyyySwtkvsyfvylxwlydfrc,yHjvwvbw--wvbylxcydflxcuyfiylxcy.kvs,
yyyyAcglywhyifvbroylxcoycdeuwmcbyxcu--wvbywvykvhlwvlyhkrcvlyhlffbq
yyyyLxcvyxcuylcwuhywaxkrcyhjgguchhkvs--lxjhylxcyufowrydflxcuyhgw.c:
yyyy"Lxfjywulydkvcyfavyhkhlcu'hybwjsxlcu--eoylxwlyecwjlcfjhydfrcydwbcy.vfav;
yyyyK,yFxyecwjlcfjh,ywvbylxoydflxcu--fiylxwlyrfilo-dkvbcby.kvs,
yyyyWucylxcybwjsxlcuh,y.kvsyHjbwdwv--xcylxwlykvyBwhwuvw[116]yucksvh;
yyyyHxcyawhyacbbcbylfy.kvsyExkdw--wvbylfyPkuwpwxjyKq
yyyyKvydoyiwlxcuhyxfdc,yBwhwuvw--fvmcyKyhwaylxcc,yvcaroyefuvq
yyyyWhylfydcylxoyiwlxcu'hyrkvcwsc--khyw.kv,yhfydkvcylfylxcc;
yyyyAxwlhfc'cuydoygfacuymfddwvbclx--Bwdwowvlk,ywrrykhylxkvcq"
yyyyyyLfylxcynjccvybkbyBwdwowvlk--kvylxcysrwbvchhyfiyxcuyxcwul,
yyyyXwpkvsyefacbykvymfjulcfjhyxfdwsc--lfyxcuydflxcu'hyhkhlcu,yhgcw.:
yyyy"Axkrcyjv.vfavyKydksxlymfvlkvjc--srwbroybacrlyKyxcucyaklxylxcc;
yyyyCpcuoyawvlyhjggrkcbyfvylx'ykvhlwvl--sjwubcbyeoylxoyscvlrcymwucq
yyyyOclylxwvycpcvylxkhygrcwhwvlybacrrkvs--wydfucygrcwhwvlydwoylxcucyec;
yyyyRfvsywyewvkhxcbyafdwv,ydflxcu!--skpcydcyrcwpcyiufdyxcvmcylfygwul,
yyyyLxklxcuyaxcucydoykviwvlymxkrbucv--bacrrydoylcvbcuyrkllrcyfvch,
yyyyFugxwvcbyfiylxckuyhkuc,ykvyhfuufa--fugxwvcb,ywx,yxfayrfvsyfiydc!
yyyyKiylxfjyoclyakrlysuwvlywyiwpfju--f'cuywrryflxcuyiwpfjuhybcwu,
yyyyLfyPkbwuexwyafjrbyKyzfjuvco--njkm.ylxcygwrwvnjkvymfddwvbq"
yyyy"Ecyklyhf,"yxcuydflxcu'hyhkhlcu--zfoijr,ykvhlwvlydwbcyucgroq
yyyySjwubcbyeoywydksxloywudo--aklxylx'ywggufpwryfiyxcuyhfv,
yyyyHcvlylxcynjccv,ylxwlyxwggoyrwbo--kvywygwrwvnjkv,yeoydcv
yyyyEfuvcywrfil,ywvbyacrrygufpkbcb--aklxywrryuwkdcvl,ybukv.,ywvbyiffbq
yyyyyyLxjhylxcygukvmchhylfyPkbwuexw--wilcuyeukciybcrwoyucljuvcbq
yyyyXcuyxcuyaxfrcywhhcdercby.kvbucb--acrmfdcbyxfdcyaklxygukbcywvbyzfo,
yyyyWrrykvyxcwrlxyhxcyifjvbyxcuy.kvhdcv-wvbylxwlyrfpcroykviwvlygwku,
yyyyAklxyxcuydflxcu,yaklxyxcuyiwlxcu--wvbyxcuyhkhlcuyluffgyfiyiukcvbhq
yyyyLfylxcysfbhyhxcygwkbyxcuyafuhxkg--lfylxcyEuwxdkvhykvyxcuyzfo;
yyyyHfylxcynjccvroyBwdwowvlk--wrrykvyvferchlysjkhcygcuifudcbq
yyyyWvbyxcuyufowryhkucyHjbcpw--aklxylxcylxfjhwvby.kvcydwbcysrwb,
yyyyZfofjhylfyecxfrbyxkhybwjsxlcu,--aklxywypkrrwscywvbydjmxyacwrlxq
yyyyLxcuc,yaxcvykvyxcuyiwlxcu'hygwrwmc--hxcylxcynjkclyvksxlyxwbygwhhcb,
yyyyKvylxchcyafubhylxcyvfercyrwbo--lfyxcuydflxcuyswvylfyhgcw.:
yyyy"Kiykvyrkicylxfjyafjrb'hlyguchcupcydc--dflxcu,yxcwuylxcylujlxyKyhgcw.;
yyyyXfdcylfyeukvsylxcyxcufyVwrw--ecyklyvfaylxoymxkcichlylfkrq"
yyyyyyLxjhywbbuchhcbyeoyBwdwowvlk--pcuoyhfuufaijrylxcynjccv
yyyyMrfjbcbywrryxcuyiwmcyaklxyaccgkvs--vflywyafubykvywvhacuyhgw.cq
yyyyEjlylxcygukvmchh,ylxjhywiirkmlcb--axcvylxcyicdwrcyluwkvyecxcrb,
yyyy"Afc!yfxyafc!"ylxcoyhxukc.cbylfsclxcu--wrrykvygklokvsyhwbvchhyacglq
yyyyyyLfylxcydksxloyuwzwyExkdw--bkbylxcynjccvylxwlyhgccmxyucrwlcq
yyyy"'Bwdwowvlk,yRfylxoybwjsxlcu--ifuyxcuyxjhewvbyhklhywvbydfjuvhq'
yyyyEucw.kvsylxufjsxywrryewhxijryhkrcvmc--lxjh,yfxy.kvs,ylfydcyhxcyhgw.c:
yyyy'Ecyklyvfaylxoyhcupwvlh'yejhkvchh--lfyikvbyfjlylxcy.kvsyfiydcvq'"
yyyyJuscbyeoyxcuylxcy.kvsyxkhyEuwxdkvh--lfyxkhyakrryfecbkcvlywrr,
yyyyHcvlywufjvbylfycpcuoyucskfv--"Ecyofjuymwucylxcy.kvsylfyikvbq"
yyyyLxcvylxfhcyEuwxdkvhywlylxcydwvbwlc--fiyPkbwuexw'hyufowryrfub,
yyyyIkuhlybucayvcwuylfyBwdwowvlk--"Rf,yvfayhclyacyifulx,"ylxcoyhwkbq
yyyyLxcvylfylxcdyhgw.cyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--"Kvywrryucwrdhyecylxkhyofjuyhgccmx,
yyyyAxcuchfcpcuydcvywhhcderc--lxkhyucgcwlywswkv,ywswkv:
yyyyAxklxcuyacvl'hlylxfjylxcv,yfxyswdchlcu!--xwriydoyswudcvlyhcpcukvsyfii,
yyyyRcwpkvsydcyaklxkvylxcyifuchl--wrryifuhw.cv,ylxoyecrfpcbq
yyyyCpcvywhylxfjymfddwvbcbhl,yhklhyhxc--hwbroyawklkvsylxoyucljuvq
yyyyGwumxcbyaklxyhfuufayhklhylxwlyafdwv--kvyxcuyhmwvlyxwriyswudcvlysrwbq
yyyyFxylfyxcuylxjhycpcuyaccgkvs--kvylxcyc lucdcyfiyxcuybkhluchh,
yyyySuwvlylxoygklo,yvfercyxcuf--wvhacuylfyxcuycwuvchlyguwocuq
yyyyEcylxkhywrhfyhwkb,ylfydfpcyxkd--lfymfdgwhhkfvwlcydoyhlwlc,
yyyy(Eoylxcyakvbyaklxkvylxcyifuchl--iwvvcb,ykvlcvhcroyejuvhylxcyikuc)q[117]
yyyyCpcuyeoyxcuymfvhfulymxcukhxcb--wvbyhjhlwkvcbylxcyakicyhxfjrbyecq
yyyyAxoyxwhlylxfjyifusflylxwlydw kd--lxfjykvycpcuoybjloyh.krrcbq
yyyyLxfjyaculycpcuymwrrcbylxcyscvcufjh--lxfjylxcyscvlrcywvbylxcyakhcq
yyyyWulylxfjyvfaychluwvscbyiufdygklo--lxufjsxydoyhwbykvzjukfjhyiwlcq
yyyyGukvmcyfiydcv,yFysuwvlylxoygklo--suwvlykl,yrfubyfiydcv,ylfydc;
yyyy'Dcumoykhylxcymxkciyfiybjlkch,'--filyiufdylxkvcyfavyrkghyK'pcyxcwubq
yyyyLxjhywhyocywucycpcuyhgcw.kvs--hxfjrbylxcucywvoyfvcyucgro,
yyyyDwu.yxkdyacrr,yrchlyxcyecyVwrw--axfyxcykh,ywvbyaxcucyxcybacrrhq
yyyyXcyaxfylfylxkhyhgccmxyxwlxyrkhlcvcb--wvbyxwlxylxjhyxkhywvhacuydwbc,
yyyyEcyxkhyafubh,yFyechlyfiyEuwxdkvh--lucwhjucbywvbyeufjsxlyxfdcylfydc,
yyyyRchlyxcyxwgroyhxfjrbybkhmfpcu--lxwlyeoydoymfddwvbyocyhgcw.,
yyyyLxwlywswkvyocydwoywggufwmxyxkd--bfyocylxkhyaklxfjlybcrwoq
yyyyAxclxcuyxcyecyfiylxcyacwrlxo--axclxcuyfiylxcygffuyxcyec;
yyyyEcyxcymfpclfjhyfiyukmxch--rcwuvyocywrryxcyafjrbybchkucq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcb,yacvlyifulxylxcyEuwxdkvh--lfylxcyucwrdhyfvycpcuoyhkbc,
yyyyHcc.kvsyfjlylxcyufowryVwrw--kvyxkhybwu.ymfvmcwrcbybkhluchhq
yyyyLxcoylxufjsxyufowrymklkch,yxwdrclh--gwhlfuwrybacrrkvsh,yxcudklh'ymcrrh,
yyyyVwrwycpcuo-axcucyacvlyhcc.kvs--oclylxfhcyEuwxdkvhyifjvbyxkdyvflq
yyyyWrrykvycpcuoygwulyacvlyhgcw.kvs--kvylxcyrwvsjwscylxcoyacucylwjsxl;
yyyyKvylxcyafubhyfiyBwdwowvlk--hgw.cylxcoykvylxcycwuhyfiydcvq




EFF.y PKKKq


yyyyRfvsylxcylkdcylxwlygwhhcb,ywyEuwxdkv--akhcyGwuvwbwyawhyxkhyvwdc,
yyyyXfdcyucljuvkvsylfylxcymklo--lxjhylfyExkdw'hybwjsxlcuyhgw.c:
yyyy"Bwdwowvlk!yufowryVwrw--whyKyhfjsxlyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs,
yyyyMwdcyKylfyWofbxow'hymklo--lxcyExwvswhjuk'hywefbcq
yyyyHlffbyecifucydc,ycwscuyrkhlcvkvs--lfylxcyafubhylxfjyewb'hlyjhyhgcw.,
yyyyXc,ylxcygufhgcufjhyUkljgwuvw--wrryc mcrrkvs!yhjmxyxkhyvwdcq
yyyyLxjhywhyhgw.cyK,ywvhacucbyvflxkvs--Ukljgwuvw,y.kvsyfiydcv;
yyyyVfuyfiywrrylxwlyijrrywhhcderwsc--dfucylxwvyfvmcywbbuchhcbyeoydcq
yyyyEoylxcy.kvsybkhdkhhcb,yaxcvyhwlcyK--kvywyhfrklwuoygrwmc,
yyyyFvcyfiyUkljgwuvw'hyxfjhcxfrb--Pwxjmw,yxkhyvwdc,ybucayvcwu,
yyyyMxwukflccuyfiylxwlysucwlyuwzw--aklxyhxfulywudhywvbywrrybcifudcb,
yyyyH.krrcbylfybukpcylxcyuwgkbymxwukfl--h.krrcbylxcypkwvbhylfygucgwucq
yyyyXc,yaxcvydjmxyxc'bysufwvcbykvywvsjkhx--wvbyxwbyacglywswkv,ywswkv,
yyyyIkuhlyxkhymfjulcfjhyhwrjlwlkfv--dwbc,ylxcvyhgw.cykvyafubhyrk.cylxchc:
yyyyCpcvykvylxcyc lucdcyfiydkhcuo--vfercyafdcvyhlkrryguchcupc,
yyyyFpcuylxckuyfavhcrpchylxcydwhlcuo--eoylxckuypkuljchyakvvkvsyxcwpcv;
yyyyFiylxckuyiwklxrchhyrfubhywewvbfvcb--wvscuyiccryvflycpcvylxcvq
yyyyKvylxcyeucwhlgrwlcyfiylxckuypkuljc--vfercyafdcvyrkpcyjvxwudcbq
yyyyEoylxcyauclmxcb,yeoylxcyhcvhcrchh--eoylxcyrfhlylfycpcuoyzfo,
yyyyHxcyeoyhjmxywyrfubyifuhw.cv--oclylfywvscuyakrryvflyokcrbq
yyyyWswkvhlyxkdyxkhyhjhlcvwvmcyhcc.kvs--fiyxkhyufecyeoyekubhybchgfkrcb,
yyyyXkdymfvhjdcbyaklxyjldfhlydkhcuo--hlkrryvfyauwlxylxcybwu.-xjcbyiccrh;
yyyyLucwlcbyacrr,yfuykrrycvlucwlcb--axcvyxcuyxjhewvbyhxcyecxfrbh,
yyyyHgfkrcbyfiyerkhh,yecucilyfiy.kvsbfd--iwdkvc-awhlcb,yafuvyaklxyafcq
yyyyXwpkvsyxcwubylxcyhluwvscu'hyrwvsjwsc--xklxcuyxwhlcbyKylfymfdcq
yyyyLxfjyxwhlyxcwub,yecylxkvcylxcyzjbsdcvl--lfylxcy.kvsyucrwlcylxfjywrrq"
yyyyLfyGwuvwbwyxwpkvsyrkhlcvcb--aklxyxcuycochyf'cuirfacbyaklxylcwuh,
yyyyHcmuclroyacvlyBwdwowvlk--wvbyxcuydflxcuylxjhywbbuchhcb:
yyyy"RclyvflyaxwlyKyhgcw.ylfyExkdw--Fydoydflxcu,yecydwbcy.vfav--
yyyyKvylxoyguchcvmcylfyHjbcpw--echlyfiyEuwxdkvh,yKyafjrbyhgcw.q
yyyyRclyvflylxkhydoyhcmuclymfjvhcr--lfy.kvsyExkdwyecybkhmrfhcb;
yyyyLxkhylxcyfezcmlyacydjhlymfdgwhh--kiylxoybwjsxlcuylxfjyafjrbhlygrcwhc,
yyyyWhydohcriyawhylfydoy.kvbucb--hakilroyeoyHjbcpwyeufjsxl,
yyyyAklxylxcyhwdcysffbyifuljvcyhakilro--dwoyHjbcpwygwulyiufdyxcvmc,
yyyyXfdcylfyeukvsylxcyufowryVwrw--dflxcu,ylfyWofbxow'hylfavq"
yyyyyyUchlkvsyiufdyxkhylfkr,yGwuvwbw--fiylxcyEuwxdkvyuwmcylxcyechl,
yyyyBkbylxcybwjsxlcuyfiyPkbwuexw--xfvfju,ywvbyaklxyacwrlxyucawubq
yyyy"Euwxdkv!yxfdcykiymfdcydoyVwrw--ukmxcuysjcubfvyakrryKyskpc;
yyyyDjmxyxwhlylxfjywmxkcpcb,ywvbyakhcro--hfywhyvfvcyejlylxfjyxwhybfvcq
yyyyLxwlywswkvyaklxydoyrfhlyxjhewvb--vferchlyEuwxdkv,yKydwoydcclq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcb,yxkhysuwlcijryxfdwsc--wvbyxkhyecvcbkmlkfvhygwkb,
yyyyXwpkvsylxjhywmxkcpcbyxkhydkhhkfv--xfdcylxcyakhcyGwuvwbwyacvlq
yyyyyyLxcvywmmfhlkvsysffbyHjbcpw--Bwdwowvlkylxjhyecswv,
yyyyWvbyecifucyxcuydflxcu'hyguchcvmc--kvyxcuygwkvywvbysukciyhxcyhgw.c:
yyyy"Sf,yHjbcpw,ylfylxcymklo--axcucyWofbxow'hyuwzwybacrrh,
yyyyHgcw.ylxfjylxjhylfyUkljgwuvw--Mfdc,ywhyfiylxkvcyfavywmmfubq
yyyyFvmcywswkvyxcuyHawocdewuw--bfchy.kvsyExkdw'hybwjsxlcuyxfrb;
yyyyBwdwowvlk,ylxklxcuyxwhlcv--wrrylxcy.kvshywvbyhfvhyfiy.kvsh;
yyyyMrfhcroyvfaylxcylkdcykhyucm.fvcb--axcvylf-dfuufa'hybwavywggcwuh;
yyyyKiylxwlylxfjyafjrb'hlyakvylxcyGukvmchh--hgccbylxfj,ylwdcuyfiylxoyifchq
yyyyAxcvylxcyhjvykhykvyxkhyukhkvs--hxcywyhcmfvbyrfubyakrrymxffhc:
yyyyAxclxcuyrkpchyfuykhyvflyrkpkvs--ufowryVwrw,yvfyfvcy.vfahq"
yyyyLxjh,ywhyxcyucmckpcbyxkhydkhhkfv--xwhlcvkvsylfylxcy.kvs,yxcyhgw.c,
yyyyLfylxcyufowryUkljgwuvw--hgw.cyHjbcpw,ykvylxchcyafubhq




EFF.y K q


yyyyXcwukvsylxjhyHjbcpw'hyrwvsjwsc--Ukljgwuvw,y.kvsyfiydcv
yyyyAklxywyscvlrcypfkmcywvbyerwvbro--lxjhylfyPwxjmwyecswvq
yyyy"AxcucylxcygukvmchhyBwdwowvlk--bflxyxcuyHawocdewuwyxfrb
yyyyKvyfvcybwoylfyiwuyPkbwuexw--Pwxjmw,yKyiwkvyafjrbysfq"
yyyyKvylxchcyafubhylxcyjv.vfavyVwrw--eoyxkhyufowryrfubywbbuchhcb
yyyyWrryxkhyxcwulyawhylfuvyaklxywvsjkhx--lxjhylxcyrfilo-dkvbcbylxfjsxl--
yyyy"Mwvyhxcyhgcw.ylxjh,yBwdwowvlk--lxjhyaklxyhfuufayiuwvlkmywml?
yyyyKh'lywyhluwlwscdylxjhyhjelro--ifuydoyhw.cybcpkhcbywvbygrwvv'b?
yyyyLfybchkucylxkhybccbyjvxfro[118]--khylxwlyxfroygukvmchhybukpcv
yyyyAufvs'byeoydc,yxcuyewhchlyxjhewvb--dkhcuwerc,ydkvb-chluwvscb!
yyyyIkm.rcykhylxcyxcwulyfiyafdwv--sukcpfjhylffykhydoyfiicvmc!
yyyyXcvmcyhxcylxjhydksxlywmlyksvfero--kvyxcuyc krc,yucilyfiyiukcvbh,
yyyyHfjr-bkhljuecbyeoyxcuysucwlyhfuufa--kvylxcyc mchhyfiyxcuybchgwkuq
yyyyVf!yhxcymfjrbyvflylxjhyxwpcywmlcb--hxcyaklxyvfercyfiihgukvsyerchlq
yyyyAxcucylxcylujlx,ywvbyaxcucylxcyiwrhcxffb--hcllkvsyifulx,yKyechlyhxwrryzjbsc,
yyyyKylxcyakrryfiyUkljgwuvw--ifuydkvcyfavyhw.c,yakrryfecoq"
yyyyLxjhyaklxkvyxkhydkvbyucpfrpkvs--Pwxjmw,yxkhyauclmxcbydkvb,
yyyyAklxyxkhyifrbcbyxwvbhywbbuchhcbyxc--Ukljgwuvw,y.kvsyfiydcv:
yyyy"Kylxoydwvbwlcyakrrywmmfdgrkhx--Kyakrrysf,yFy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyKvywyhkvsrcybwo,yFyuwzw--lfyPkbwuexw'hyufowrylfavq"
yyyyPwxjmwyfiywrrylxcymfjuhcuh--bkbywymrfhcykvhgcmlkfvydw.c
yyyyCvlcukvsykvylxcyufowryhlwerc--eoyExwvswhjuk'hymfddwvbq
yyyyCpcuyjuscbyeoyUkljgwuvw--Pwxjmw,ykvyxfuhchyh.krrcb,
yyyyRfvsyaklxkvyxkdhcriybcewlkvs--axkmxylxcyircclchlyhlccbhylfymxffhc,
yyyyXcywggufwmxcbyifjuyhrcvbcuymfjuhcuh--ikl,ywvbygfacuijryifuylxcyufwb,
yyyyErcvbkvsydksxloyhlucvslxyaklxyircclvchh--xksxykvymfjuwscywvbykvyerffb;
yyyyIuccyiufdywrrylxcyacrr-.vfavypkmch--eufwbyfiyvfhlukr--rwuscyfiyzwa;
yyyyAklxylxcylcvysffbydwu.hybkhlkvsjkhxcb[119]--efuvykvyHkvbxj[120]--ircclywh
yyyyyyyyakvbq
yyyyWhyxcyswtcbyjgfvylxfhcymfjuhcuh--hgf.cylxcy.kvs,ywrdfhlykvyauwlx:
yyyy"Khylxcvylxjhyijrikrrcbyfjuydwvbwlc?--lxkv.yvflylfybcmckpcyjhyhfq
yyyyXfayakrrylxchcydoymfjuhcuhyecwuyjh--hrksxlykvyhlucvslxywvbyhrksxlro
yyyyyyyyeucwlxcb--
yyyyXfaymwvyhjmxywyawoyecyluwpcrrcb--wvbyhfyrfvs,yeoyhlccbhyrk.cylxchc?"--

yyyyPWXJMWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Lafyfvylx'yxcwb,yfvcyfvylxcyifucxcwb--lafywvbylafyfvycklxcuyirwv.--
yyyyLaf,yecxfrb,ylxcymxchlybkhmrfhch--wvbyjgfvylxcymujggcuyfvc--
yyyyLxchcylxcyxfuhchylfyPkbxwuew--lxwlyakrryecwuyjh,ybfjelyvflylxfj;
yyyyOcl,ykiyflxcuhylxfjygucicuchl--hgcw.,ywvbyKyakrryof.cylxcdyhluwksxlq"

yyyyUKLJGWUVWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Kvylxcy.vfarcbscylxfjyfiyxfuhch--Pwxjmw,yxwhlydwlmxrchhyh.krr;
yyyyAxkmxhf'cuylxfjylxkv.'hlylxcyikllchl--xwuvchhylxfjyaklxfjlybcrwoq"

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

yyyyLxcvylxfhcyifjuyc mcrrkvsyxfuhch--vferoyeucb--fiymfjuwscyxksx,
yyyyKvylxckuyxwuvchhylfylxcymxwukfl--bkbylxcyh.krijryVwrwyof.cq--
yyyyLfylxcymxwukflyof.cb,ywhydfjvlcb--kvyxkhycwscuyxwhlcylxcy.kvs
yyyyLfylxcycwulxylxfhcyechlyfiyxfuhch--efacbylxckuy.vcchywvbyhlffgcbylxcdybfavq
yyyyLxcvylxcyvferchlyfiywrryxcufch--Vwrw,yaklxywyhfflxkvsypfkmc,
yyyyHgw.cyjvlfylxfhcyxfuhch,yskilcb--eflxyaklxyircclvchhywvbyaklxyhlucvslxq
yyyyJgylxcyuckvhyaxcvyxcyxwbyswlxcucb--xcylxcymxwukflccuyewbcydfjvl,
yyyyIkuhl,yPwuhxvcow,yh.krrcbykvybukpkvs--wlyijrryhgccbylxcvyhclyxcyifulxq
yyyyyyJuscbyeoyPwxjmw,ylxfhcymfjuhcuh--lfylxcyjldfhlyfiylxckuyhgccb,
yyyyWrrywlyfvmcykvylx'ywkuyhgujvsyjgawub--whylxcybukpcuylfyjvhcwlq
yyyyLxcv,ywhyxcyecxcrbylxfhcyxfuhch--ecwukvsyxkdywhyircclywhyakvb,
yyyyBkbylxcydfvwumxyfiyWofbxow--kvyxkhyhkrcvlyafvbcuyhklq
yyyyAxcvylxcyuwllrkvsyfiylxcymxwukfl--axcvylxcysjkbkvsyfiylxcyuckvh,
yyyyAxcvyfiyPwxjmwylxcyhmkcvmc--hwayxc,ylxjhyPwuhxvcowylxfjsxl:
yyyy"KhyklyDwlwrk,[121]ylxcymxwukfl--fiylxcy.kvsyfiyxcwpcvylxwlybukpch?
yyyyRf,ykvyPwxjmwycwmxypkuljc--fiylxwlysfbrk.cymxwukflccu!
yyyyKhyklyHwrkxfluwyh.krijr--kvylxcyuwmc,ylxcyhlucvslxyfiyhlccbh,
yyyyLxwlyxwlxylw'cvywyxjdwvyefbo--lxjhywrr-srfukfjhylfyecxfrb?
yyyyKh'l,yfuymwvyklyec,y.kvsyVwrw--mfvnjcufuyfiyxkhyifcdcv'hyucwrdh?
yyyyKhylxcyrfubyfiydcvyecifucyjh?"--lxjhyaklxkvyxkdhcriyxcylxfjsxlq
yyyy"Kiylxcyh.krrygfhhchhcbyeoyVwrw--Pwxjmwygfhhchhclxylff,
yyyyRf,yfiyPwxjmwylxcy.vfarcbsc--wvbyfiyVwrwycnjwryhccdh;
yyyyWvbyfiyPwxjmwywvbyVwrw--lxjhywrk.cylxcywscyhxfjrbyecq
yyyyKiy'lkhyvflylxcyvfercyVwrw--klykhyfvcyfiycnjwryh.krrq
yyyyDksxloyfvch,ybkhsjkhcb,ywucyawvbcukvs--kvylxcygucmkvmlhyfiylxkhycwulxq
yyyyLxco,ybkpkvcyeoykvefuvyvwljuc--ejlykvycwulxroyifudhymfvmcwrcbq
yyyyXkhybcifudkloyfiyefbo--lxwlydoyzjbsdcvlyhlkrrymfvifjvbh;
yyyyOclylxwlyguffiywrfvcykhyawvlkvs--axwlyhxwrrylxcvydoyzjbsdcvlyec?
yyyyKvylxckuywscylxcoyhlkrrywucycnjwr--lxfjsxyjvrk.cylxwlyifudydkhhxwgcb,
yyyyVwrwyskilcbyaklxywrrypkuljch--PwxjmwyKyvccbhydjhlybccdq"
yyyyLxjhylxcymxwukflccuyPwuhxvcow--hwlcybcewlkvsykvyxkhydkvb;
yyyyDjmx,ywvbydjmxywswkvyxcygfvbcucb--kvylxcyhkrcvmcyfiyxkhylxfjsxlq
yyyyEjlylxcyufowryUkljgwuvw--Pwxjmw'hyhjugwhhkvsyh.krr,
yyyyAklxylxcymxwukflccuyPwuhxvcow--hwlcywbdkukvs,ywvbyuczfkmcbq
yyyyKvylxcysjkbkvsyfiylxcymfjuhcuh--xkhywllcvlkpcyxwvbyxcyawlmxcb,
yyyyAfvbcucbywlyxkhyh.krr,ymfvhjddwlc--kvymfvhjddwlcyzfoyxkdhcriq




EFF.y  q


yyyyFpcuyukpcuh,yfpcuydfjvlwkvh--lxufjsxylxcyifuchlh,yfpcuyrw.ch,
yyyyIrcclroygwhhcbylxco,yuwgkbysrkbkvs--rk.cywyekubywrfvsylxcywkuq
yyyyWhylxcymxwukflyhakilroyluwpcrrcb--rf,yExwvswhjukylxcy.kvs
yyyyHwayxkhyjggcuyswudcvlyiwrrcv--iufdylxcyrfiloymxwukflyhcwl;
yyyyLxfjsxykvyjuscvlyxwhlc,yvfyhffvcu--xcyxkhyiwrrcvydwvlrcyhwa,
yyyyLxwvylxcy.kvsyc mrwkdcbylfyVwrw--"Gwjhc,ywvbyrclyjhylw.cyklyjg:
yyyyMxcm.,ywvykvhlwvl,ydksxlo-dkvbcb!--mxcm.ylxoyikcuo-ifflcbyhlccbh,
yyyyAxkrcyPwuhxvcow,yhakilybkhdfjvlkvs--ecwuhydcyewm.ydoyiwrrcvyufecq"
yyyyVwrwywvhacucb,y"Iwuyecxkvbyjh--bflxylxoyiwrrcvyswudcvlyrkc;
yyyyLcvydkrch,[122]yrf,yklyrkchyecxkvbyjh--ljuvyacyvfl,ylfyswkvykl,yewm.q"
yyyyWvhacucbylxjhyeoyvfercyVwrw--lxcvyExwvswhjukylxcy.kvs,
yyyyEfacbyaklxyiujkl,yaklxkvylxcyifuchl--hwaywylwrryPkexklw.[123]ylucc:
yyyySwtkvsyfvylxwlylucc,ylxcyuwzw--hgw.cylfyPwxjmwykvyxwhlc,
yyyy"Vfa,yFymxwukflccu,ykvyvjdecuh,ylxfjyhxwrlyhccydoygwhhkvsyh.krrq
yyyyCwmxyfvcy.vfahyvflycpcuoyhmkcvmc--vfvcylxcucykhylxwlywrrylxkvshy.vfah:
yyyyGcuicmlyh.krrykvycpcuoy.vfarcbsc--kvyfvcydkvbylxcucydwoyvflyecq
yyyyFvyofvyluccywucyrcwpchyxfaydwvo?--Pwxjmw,yxfaydwvoyiujkl?
yyyyHwo,yxfaydwvoywucylxcucyiwrrcv?--fvcywefpcywyxjvbucb,ylxcucq
yyyyFvcyrcwiykhylxcucy'efpcywyxjvbucb--wvbyfvcyiujkl,yFyPwxjmw!
yyyyWvbyfiyrcwpchywucyikpcylcvydkrrkfvh[124]--xwvskvsyfvylxfhcyeuwvmxchylafq
yyyyLxfhcylafyeuwvmxchykiylxfjyswlxcu--wvbylxcylakshylxwlyfvylxcdysufa,
yyyyFvylxfhcylafywucyiujklhylafylxfjhwvb--wvbywyxjvbucb,yrchhyeoyikpcq"
yyyyLxcv,yaxcvyxcyxwbymxcm.'bylxcymxwukfl--wvhacucbyPwxjmwylxcy.kvs,
yyyy"Axwlylxfjyhgcw.chl,ylfydkvcycochksxl--wrrykvpkhkercywggcwuh;
yyyyPkhkercyK'rrydw.cykl,ymfjvlkvs--fvyofvyefjsxhylxcyrcwpchywvbyiujkl:
yyyyLxcv,yaxcvyacyxwpcyhlukmlroyvjdecucb--Kydkhlujhlydkvcycochyvfydfucq
yyyyKvylxoyguchcvmc,y.kvs,yK'rryvjdecu--ofvbcuylwrryPkexklw.-luccq
yyyyAxclxcuyklydwoyec,yfuydwoyvfl--lxkhyvflybfvc,yKymwvvfly.vfaq
yyyyKyakrryvjdecu,ylxfjyecxfrbkvs--wrryklhyiujklh,yFy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyEjlywvykvhlwvlyrclyPwuhxvcow--xfrbylxcyeukbrchyfiylxcyhlccbhq"
yyyyLfylxcymxwukflccuylxcyuwzw--wvhacucb,y"Lkdcykhyvfvcylfyhlwoq"
yyyyPwxjmwyucgrkcb,ywrrycwscu--xkhyfavygjugfhcylfyijrikr,
yyyy"Cklxcuyhlwoylxfjyxcucywvykvhlwvl--fuysfyfvawubykvylxoyhgccb,
yyyyAklxylxcymxwukflccuyPwuhxvcow--sf,yifuyhluwksxlylxcyufwbyecifucq"
yyyyWvhacucbyxkdy.kvsyUkljgwuvw--aklxywyerwvbywvbyhfflxkvsypfkmc:
yyyy"Mxwukflccu!yfvycwulxylxkvcycnjwr--Pwxjmw,ylxcucydwoyvflyec;
yyyyEoylxoysjkbwvmc,yh.krrcbykvyxfuhch!--lfyPkbwuexwyKyafjrbysf:
yyyyKykvylxccyxwpcygrwmcbyucrkwvmc--kvlcuujglyvflylxcvyfjuymfjuhc:
yyyyAkrrkvsroyakrryKyfecoylxcc--Pwxjmw,ykvyaxwlylxfjywh.'hl,
yyyyKiylxkhybwoyacyucwmxyPkbwuexw--cucylxcyhjvyxwlxyhjv.ykvyvksxlq"
yyyyPwxjmwyucgrkcb,y"Vfyhffvcu--xwpcyKyvjdecucbyofvbcuyiujkl,
yyyyLfyPkbwuexwyakrryKyxwhlcv--suwvlydcylxcvydoyguwocu,yFy.kvsq"
yyyyLxcvylxcyuwzw,ywrryucrjmlwvl--"Hlwoylxcv,ywvbyecskvylfymfjvl;
yyyyFiyfvcyeuwvmxyfvcygwul,yFyerwdcrchh--iufdylxcylwrryPkexklw.ylucc,
yyyyDwvyfiylujlx,yecskvylfyvjdecu--wvbydw.cysrwbylxkvcykvdfhlyxcwulq"
yyyyIufdylxcymxwukflynjkm.ywrksxlkvs--Vwrwylfucylxcyeuwvmxywawoq
yyyyLxcv,yxkhyhfjrygfhhchh'byaklxyafvbcu--lfylxcyuwzwylxjhyxcyhwkb;
yyyy"Xwpkvsymfjvlcb,ywvylxfjyhwachl--cpcvyhfydwvoyiujklhylxcucywuc,
yyyyDwupcrrfjhylxoygfacu,yFydfvwumx--eoydkvcycochyecxcrbywvbygufpcb,
yyyyFiylxwlyafvbcu-afu.kvsyhmkcvmc--iwkvylxcyhcmuclyafjrbyKyxcwuq"
yyyyLxcvylxcyuwzwyhgw.cykvywvhacu--cwscuylfygjuhjcyxkhyawo,
yyyy"Kyfiybkmcygfhhchhylxcyhmkcvmc--wvbykvyvjdecuhylxjhywdyh.krrcbq"
yyyyPwxjmwyucgrkcb;y"Lxwlyhmkcvmc--kiylfydcylxfjyakrlykdgwul,
yyyyKvyucljuv,yFy.kvs,yucmckpcylxfj--doyhjugwhhkvsyh.krrykvyhlccbhq"
yyyyLxcvylxcyuwzwyUkljgwuvw--eoyxkhyguchhkvsyvccbykvbjmcb,
yyyyCwscuyifuylxwlyh.krrykvyxfuhch--"Ecyklyhf,"ylxjhy'swvylfyhwo;
yyyy"Acrr,yFyPwxjmw,ylxfjyhgcw.chl--lxfjydoyh.krrykvybkmcyucmckpc,
yyyyWvbyfiyhlccbhylxoyafvbufjhy.vfarcbsc--ecylfydcywydcclyucljuvq"
yyyyUkljgwuvw,ywrryxkhyhmkcvmc--hwokvsylxkh,ylfyVwrwyswpcq
yyyyHffvywhyxcykvybkmcysucayh.krijr--.wrkyiufdyxkhyefboygwhhcb:
yyyyXcy.wu.flw.w'hyifjrygfkhfv--pfdklkvsyiufdyfjlyxkhydfjlx,
yyyyAcvlyiufdyifulxyxkhyefboy.wrk[125]--lfuljucbyeoylxwlyikcuoymjuhcq
yyyyVwrw,yawhlcbyeoylxwlymfvirkml--mwdcyvflykvhlwvlylfyxkdhcri,
yyyyEjl,yucrcwhcbyiufdylxwlybucwbypcvfd--.wrkyxkhyfavyifudyuchjdcb:
yyyyWvbyVkhxwbxw'hydfvwumx,yVwrw--iwkvyafjrbymjuhcyxkdykvyxkhykucq
yyyyXkdywbbuchhcbylxcyicwuijry.wrk--lucderkvs,ywvbyaklxyifrbcbyxwvbh;
yyyy"Rfubyfiydcv,yuchluwkvylxkvcywvscu--Kyakrryskpcylxccydwlmxrchhyiwdc;
yyyyKvbuwhcvw'hyauwlxijrydflxcu--rwkbyfvydcyxcuyiwlwrymjuhc,[126]
yyyyAxcvyeoylxccyhxcyawhybchculcb--hkvmcylxwlylkdc,yFy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyKyxwpcybacrlykvylxccykvywvsjkhx--kvylxcycmhlwmoyfiygwkvq
yyyyEoylxcy.kvsyfiyHcugcvlh'ygfkhfv--Kyxwpcyejuvcbyeoyvksxl,yeoybwo;
yyyyLfylxoydcumoyvfayifuyucijsc--irccyK,yxcwuydoyhgccmx,yFy.kvs:
yyyyAxcuchfc'cuydcv,yjvifusclijr--lxufjsxylxcyafurbyhxwrryrwjbylxoyvwdc,
yyyyHxwrrylxcywaijrybucwbyfiy.wrk[126]--vcpcuykvylxckuyhfjrywekbcq
yyyyKiylxfjyakrlyvflymjuhcydc,ylucderkvs--wvbylfylxccyifuyucijscyircbq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcb,ylxcyufowryVwrw--wrryxkhyukhkvsyauwlxyhjgguchhcb,
yyyyWvbylxcyicwuijry.wrkycvlcucb--kvylxcymrfpcvyPkexklw.ylucc:[127]
yyyyLfyvfycochyejlylxfhcyfiyVwrw--pkhkerc,yxwby.wrkyhgf.cvq
yyyyLxcvylxcydfvwumxyfiyVkhxwbxw--iufdyxkhykvawubyicpcuyiuccb,
yyyyAxcvywawoyxwbypwvkhxcby.wrk--axcvylxcyiujklhyxcyxwbyvjdecucbywrr,
yyyyLukjdgxkvsykvyzfoyjvafvlcb--erwtkvsykvyxkhyhgrcvbfjuyifulx,
yyyyGufjbroydfjvlkvsyfvylxcymxwukfl--fvawubyjuscbylxcyuwgkbyhlccbhq
yyyyEjlylxwlyluccyeoy.wrkycvlcucb--hkvmcylxwlylkdcyhlwvbhywocywmmjuhcbq
yyyyLxfhcyircclyxfuhch,yifuawubyirokvs--rk.cylfyekubh,ywswkv,ywswkv,
yyyyWrryxkhyhfjrycrwlcyaklxyluwvhgful--Vwrwyhakilcu,yhakilcuybufpc;
yyyyAklxyxkhyiwmcylfawubhyPkbwuexw--ufbcylxcyuwzwykvyxkhygukbc:
yyyyWvbyaxcvyifuawubyVwrwyzfjuvcocb--.wrkylfyxkhyxfdcyucljuvcbq
yyyyHfyucrcwhcbyiufdywrryxkhyhjiicukvsh--Vwrwyacvl,ylxcy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyBkhgfhhchhcbyeoy.wrk,yawvlkvs--fvroyvfayxkhygufgcuyifudq




EFF.y  Kq


yyyyAklxylxcycpcvkvsykvyPkbwuexw--dcvywlyawlmx,ywhylxcoybucayvcwu,
yyyyDksxloyUkljgwuvw'hymfdkvs--lfy.kvsyExkdwybkbygufmrwkdq
yyyyLxcvylxwly.kvs,yeoyExkdw'hydwvbwlc--cvlcucbykvy.jvbkvw'hyawrrh,
yyyyWrrylxcyucskfvyufjvbyxkdycmxfkvs[128]--aklxylxcylxjvbcuhyfiyxkhymwuq
yyyyEjlylxcycmxfkvsyfiylxwlymxwukfl--axcvy.kvsyVwrw'hyxfuhchyxcwub,
yyyyKvylxckuyzfoylxcoygwacbywvbyluwdgrcb[129]--cpcvywhyVwrw'hyhcriyacucylxcucq
yyyyBwdwowvlk,ylff,ylxcyujhxkvs--fiy.kvsyVwrw'hymxwukflyxcwubq
yyyyWhywymrfjbylxwlyxfwuhcroylxjvbcuh--wlylxcymfdkvsyfiylxcyuwkvhq
yyyyWrryxcuyxcwulyawhylxukrrcbyaklxyafvbcu--wlylxwlyfrbyiwdkrkwuyhfjvbq
yyyyFvylxcoyhccdcbylfymfdc,ywhyVwrw--bufpcyfiyofucyxkhyluwdgrkvsyhlccbh:
yyyyRk.cyklyhccdcbylfyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--wvbyc'cvyhfylfyVwrw'hyhlccbhq
yyyyFvylxcygwrwmcyuffihylxcygcwmfm.h--lx'ycrcgxwvlhyaklxkvylxckuyhlwrrh,
yyyyWvbylxcyxfuhchyxcwubylxcyufrrkvs--fiylxcydksxloydfvwumx'hymwuq
yyyyCrcgxwvlhywvbygcwmfm.hyxcwukvs--lxcyircclymxwukflyuwllrkvsyfv,
yyyyJgylxcoyuwkhcbylxckuyvcm.hywvbymrwdfjucb--whywlyhfjvbyfiymfdkvsyuwkvq[130]

yyyyBWDWOWVLKy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Xfaylxcyufrrkvsyfiyofvymxwukfl--ikrrkvs,ywhyklyhccdh,ylx'ycwulx,
yyyyLxukrrhydoyhfjryaklxyjv.vfavyluwvhgful--klykhyVwrw,y.kvsyfiydcvq
yyyyKiylxkhybwoyKyhccyvflyVwrw--aklxyxkhysrfakvsydffvrk.cyiwmc,
yyyyXkd,ylxcy.kvsyaklxymfjvlrchhypkuljch--Kyhxwrrygcukhxyaklxfjlybfjelq
yyyyKiylxkhybwoyaklxkvylx'ycdeuwmch--fiylxwlyxcuf'hymrwhgkvsywudh,
yyyyKylxcyscvlrcyguchhjucyiccryvfl--aklxfjlybfjelyKyhxwrryvflyrkpcq
yyyyKiy'lkhyvfl,yrk.cymrfjbyfiylxjvbcu--xcylxwlymfdch,yVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs,
yyyyKylxkhybwoylxcyikucyakrrycvlcu--ejuvkvsyrk.cylxcyxjcyfiysfrbq
yyyyKvyxkhydksxlyrk.cylxcyhlufvsyrkfv--rk.cylxcyuwskvsycrcgxwvl,
yyyyMfdchyxcyvfl,ylxcygukvmcyfiygukvmch--Kyhxwrrygcukhxyaklxfjlybfjelq
yyyyVflywyiwrhcxffbyKyucdcdecu--Kyucdcdecuyvfyfiicvmc;
yyyyVflywvykbrcyafubyucdcdecu--kvyxkhyvfercymfvpcuhcyiuccq
yyyyRfilo,ygwlkcvl,yrk.cywyxcuf--rkecuwryecofvbywrry.kvsh,
yyyyVfjsxlyksvferc,ywhylxcycjvjmx--cpcvykvygukpwlc,ydwoyxcybfq
yyyyWhyKylxkv.yjgfvyxkhypkuljch--whyKylxkv.yeoybwo,yeoyvksxl,
yyyyWrrydoyxcwulykhyucvlyaklxywvsjkhx--akbfacbyfiykvyfavyecrfpcbq"
yyyyyyLxjhyrwdcvlkvs,yhxcywhmcvbcb--whyaklxyiucvtkcbydkvbygfhhchhcb,
yyyyLfylxcygwrwmcyuffi'hyxksxylcuuwmc--lfyecxfrbylxcy.kvsyfiydcvq
yyyyKvylxcydkbbrcymfjulyxksxyhcwlcb--kvylxcymwu,ylxcyrfubyfiycwulx,
yyyyUkljgwuvwyaklxyPwuhxvcow--wvbyaklxyPwxjmwyhxcyhwa,
yyyyAxcvyPwuhxvcowyiufdylxwlymxwukfl--wvbyaxcvyPwxjmwymwdcybfav,
yyyyXcyrclyrffhcylxfhcyvfercymfjuhcuh--wvbyxcyhlfggcbylxcysrfakvsymwuq
yyyyIufdylxwlymxwukfl-hcwlybchmcvbcb--Ukljgwuvw,y.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyLfylxcyvfercydfvwumxyExkdw--xcybucayvcwu,yifuyhlucvslxyucvfavcbq
yyyyXkdyucmckpcbyaklxyxksxchlyxfvfju--Exkdw,yifuyaklxfjlybjcymwjhc,
yyyyBccdcbyvflyxc,ylxcydksxloyuwzw--aklxyhjmxyjuscvlyhgccbyxwbymfdcq
yyyy"Axcucifucymfd'hlylxfj!yxwkrywvbyacrmfdc"--lxjhylxwlysuwmkfjhy.kvsycvnjkuch;
yyyyIfuyxkhybwjsxlcu'hyhw.cyxcy.vcayvfl--lxwlylxcyrfubyfiydcvyxwbymfdcq
yyyyEjlylxcyuwzwyUkljgwuvw--sucwlykvyakhbfdywhykvydksxl,
yyyyAxcvyvfuy.kvsyaklxkvylxcygwrwmc--vfuy.kvs'hyhfvyxcymfjrbyecxfrb,
yyyyVfuyfiyHawocdewuwyxcwubyxc--vfuywhhcdercbyEuwxdkvhyhwaq
yyyyLxjhyaklxkvyxkhydkvbybccgygfvbcukvs--hgf.cyfiy.fhwrwylxcyrfubq
yyyy"Xklxcu,yFydwzchlkmyExkdw--lfyhwrjlcylxccywdyKymfdcq"
yyyyEjly.kvsyExkdwyhdkrcbykvyhcmucl--whyxcylxfjsxlyaklxkvyxkhydkvb,
yyyy"Axwlylxcymwjhcyfiylxkhyiwuyzfjuvco--fiywyxjvbucbyOfzwvwhq
yyyyGwhhkvsylxufjsxyhfydwvoymklkch--ifuylxkhymwjhcyxcyhclyvflyifulx;
yyyyIfuylxkhymwjhcyfiyrkllrcydfdcvl--lfyfjuymfjulyxcyxwlxyvflymfdc:
yyyyAxwlylxcyucwrymwjhc,yxcucwilcu--xwgroyKydwoymxwvmcylfy.vfaq"
yyyyWilcuyufowrycvlculwkvdcvl--lxcvylxcy.kvsyxkhysjchlybkhdkhhcb:
yyyy"Lw.cylxcvylxoyucgfhc,"ylxjhyhwkbyxc--"acwuoyfiylxoyzfjuvco,yuchlq"
yyyyXcyuciuchxcb,yaklxymfjulcfjhyxfdwsc--fiylxwlymfjulcfjhy.kvsylff.yrcwpc,
yyyyJhxcucbyeoylxcyufowryhcupwvlh--lfylx'ywggfkvlcbymxwdecuyacvl:
yyyyLxcucyuclkucby.kvsyUkljgwuvw--aklxyPwuhxvcowykvyxkhyhjklcq
yyyyPwxjmw,ydcwvlkdc,ylxcymxwukfl--lfylxcymxwukfl-xfjhcyxwbyrcb,
yyyyLxcucylxcymfjuhcuhyxcyjvxwuvchhcb--h.krijrroyxcybuchhcbylxcdylxcuc,
yyyyWvbyaklxyscvlrcyafubhymwuchhcbylxcd--fvylxcymxwukflyhcwlyhwlcybfavq
yyyyyyEjlylxcyafcijryBwdwowvlk--axcvyExwvswhjukyhxc'byhccv,
yyyyWvbylxcymxwukflccuyPwuhxvcow--wvbylxcyhccdkvsyPwxjmw,
yyyyLxfjsxlyaklxkvyPkbwuexw'hygukvmchh--"Axfhcyawhylxwlyircclymxwukfl'hyhfjvb?
yyyyHjmxyklyhccdhywhyvfercyVwrw'h--oclyvfyVwrwybfyKyhccq
yyyyXwlxylxcymxwukflccuyPwuhxvcow--Vwrw'hyvfercyhmkcvmcyrcwuvcb?
yyyyLxcucifucybkbylxcylxjvbcukvsymxwukfl--hfjvbywhybukpcvyeoyVwrw'hyhcri?
yyyyFuydwoyufowryUkljgwuvw--rk.cylxcyh.krijryVwrwybukpc,
yyyyLxcucifucybkbylxcyufrrkvsymxwukfl--hccdywhyfiyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs?"
yyyyLxjhyaxcvyBwdwowvlkygfvbcucb--kvylxcyhkrcvmcyfiyxcuyhfjr,
yyyyHcvlyhxcylxcvyxcuyecwjlcfjhyxwvbdwkb--lfylxwly.kvsyxcuydchhcvscuq




EFF.y  KKq


yyyyBWDWOWVLKy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Sf,y.chkvkw,ysf,ycvnjkucylxfj--axfykhyofvbcuymxwukflccu,
yyyyFvylxcymxwukflyhcwlyucgfhkvs--wrrybcifudcb,yaklxywudhyhfyhxful?
yyyyErchhcbydwkb,ywggufwmx,ywvbymfjulcfjh--fgcvylxfjylxoyerwvbybkhmfjuhc:
yyyyJvbchgkh'b,ywh.ylxfjylxoynjchlkfv--wvbylxcylujlxyrclyxkdyucgroq
yyyyDjmxywvbyhfucroybfyKybfjelydc--axclxcuyVwrwyklydwoyec,
yyyyWhydoyefhfd'hyuwgljucywjsjuh--whylxcysrwbvchhyfiydoyxcwulq
yyyyHgcw.ylxfj,ycucylxfjymrfhcylxcymfvpcuhc--cpcvywhysffbyGwuvwbwyhgw.c
yyyyWvbyxkhywvhacu,yhrcvbcu-awkhlcb--jvbchgkh'b,yucdcdecuylxfjq"
yyyyLxcvylfyPwxjmwybcgwulkvs--acvlylxwlytcwrfjhydchhcvscu,
yyyyFvylxcygwrwmc'yrfilkchlylcuuwmc--Bwdwowvlkyhwlcywvbyswtcbq

yyyy.CHKVKWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Xwggoyfdcvydwu.ylxoymfdkvs--Kyhwrjlcylxcc,y.kvsyfiydcv:
yyyyFiylxcygukvmchhyBwdwowvlk--xcwu,yFyrfubyfiydcv,ylxcyhgccmx:
yyyy'Iufdyaxwlyucskfvymwdcyocyxklxcu--aklxyaxwlygjugfhcywucyocymfdc?'
yyyyWvhacuylxfj,ywhydwoyechccdyofj--hfyPkbwuexw'hygukvmchhyakrrhq"

yyyyPWXJMWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"HffvywyhcmfvbyHawocdewuw,yxcwubylxcy.kvsyfiy.fhwrw,
yyyyBwdwowvlkyxfrbh:ylf-dfuufa--akrryklyec,ylxcyEuwxdkvyhwkb:
yyyyXcwukvsylxkh,yaklxyircclchlymfjuhcuh--lxwlywyxjvbucbyofzwvwh'yhgccb,
yyyyHclyxcyifulx,ylxcyakvbyrchhyuwgkb,--wvbyxkhymxwukflccuywdyKq"

yyyy.CHKVKWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Axfylxcylxkubylxwlyzfjuvcohyaklxyofj--axfykhyxc,ywvbyaxwlyxkhyuwmc?
yyyyFiyaxwlyuwmcywulylxfj?ylxkhyfiikmc--axcucifucybfhlylxfjyjvbculw.c!"

yyyyPWXJMWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"'Lkhylxcyiwu-ucvfavcbyPwuhxvcow--Gjvowhrf.w'hymxwukflccu:
yyyyXc,yaxcvyVwrwyircbywvyc krc--lfyExwvswhjukyuclkucbq
yyyyH.krijryKykvylwdkvsyxfuhch--wvbywyiwdfjhymxwukflccuq
yyyyUkljgwuvw'hymxfhcvybukpcu--buchhcuyfiyxkhyiffbywdyKq"

yyyy.CHKVKWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy".vfahylxcymxwukflccuyPwuhxvcow--axklxcuyufowryVwrwyacvl?
yyyyFiyxkhyifuljvcyxwlxyxcylfrbylxcc--Pwxjmw,yaxwlyxwlxyxcyhwkb?"

yyyyPWXJMWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"XcyfiylxcyjvxwggoyVwrw--hwicylxcymxkrbucvyefuvcywawo,
yyyyAxcuchfc'cuyxcyafjrb,ybcgwulcb--fiy.kvsyVwrwy.vfahyxcyvfjsxl:
yyyyVflxkvsyfiyVkhxwbxw'hyuwzw--iwkuyfvc!yrkpkvsydwvybflxy.vfaq
yyyyLxufjsxylxcyafurb,ymfvmcwrcb,yxcyawvbcuh--xwpkvsyrfhlyxkhygufgcuyifudq
yyyyFvroyVwrw'hyhcriyfiyVwrw--.vfah,ywvbyxkhyfavykvawubyhfjr,
yyyyFiyxkdhcriylfyrkpkvsydfulwr--Vwrwyakrryvfyhksvyecluwoq"

yyyy.CHKVKWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"XcylxwlylfyWofbxow'hymklo--acvl,ylxcyxfroyEuwxdkvyikuhl,
yyyyFiyxkhyiwklxijryakicylxchcyhwokvsh--jllcucbyfvmcywvbyfvmcywswkv;
yyyy'Axklxcuyacvl'hlylxfjylxcv,yFyswdchlcu--xwriydoyswudcvlyhcpcukvsyfii;
yyyyRcwpkvsyxcuyaklxkvylxcyifuchl--wrryifuhw.cv,ylxoyecrfp'b?
yyyyCpcvywhylxfjymfddwvbcb'hl,yhklhyhxc--hwbroyawklkvsylxoyucljuv,
yyyyBwoywvbyvksxl,ymfvhjdcbyaklxyhfuufa--kvyxcuyhmwvlyxwriyswudcvlymrwbq
yyyyFylfyxcuyifuycpcuyaccgkvs--kvylxcyc lucdcyfiyxcuybkhluchh,
yyyySuwvlylxoygklo,yvfercyxcuf--wvhacuylfyxcuycwuvchlyguwocuq'
yyyyHgcw.ywswkvylxcyafubhylxfjyjllcucb'hl--afubhyfiymfdifulylfyxcuyhfjr,
yyyyLxcyucvfavcbyPkbwuexw'hygukvmchh--iwkvylxwlyhgccmxyafjrbyxcwuywswkv,
yyyyAxcvylxcyEuwxdkvylxjhyxwbyhgf.cv--axwlylxfjywvhacucb'hlyewm.ylfyxkd,
yyyyLxwlywswkvyPkbwuexw'hygukvmchh--kvylxcyhcri-hwdcyafubhyafjrbyxcwuq"

yyyyPUKXWBWHPWy_hgw.c_q

yyyyFiy.kvsyVwrw,yeoylxcyxwvbdwkb--iwkuy.chkvkwylxjhywbbuchhcb,
yyyyWrrylxcyxcwulyawhyaujvsyaklxyhfuufa--wvbylxcycochyf'cuirfacbyaklxylcwuhq
yyyyEjlyxkhywvsjkhxyhlkrryhjgguchhkvs--kvroylxfjsxymfvhjdcb,ylxcy.kvs,
yyyyAklxywypfkmcyxwriymxf.cbyaklxyaccgkvs--lxjhyucgcwlcbyxkhyucgroq
yyyy"Cpcvykvylxcyc lucdcyfiydkhcuo--vfercyafdcvyhlkrryguchcupc
yyyyFpcuylxckuyfavyhcrpchylxcydwhlcuo--eoylxckuypkuljchyakvvkvsyxcwpcv;
yyyyEoylxckuyiwklxrchhyrfubhywewvbfvcb--wvscuyiccrylxcoyvfl,yc'cvylxcv;
yyyyKvylxcyeucwhlgrwlcyfiylxckuypkuljc--vfercyafdcvyrkpcyjvxwudcbq
yyyyEoylxcyauclmxcb,yeoylxcyhcvhcrchh--eoylxcyrfhlylfycpcuoyzfo,
yyyyHxcyeoyhjmxywyrfubyifuhw.cv--lfyuchcvldcvlyakrryvflyokcrbq
yyyyWswkvhlyxkd,yeoyxjvscuyawhlcb--fiyxkhyufecyeoyekubhybchgfkrcb,
yyyyXkdymfvhjdcbyaklxyjldfhlydkhcuo--hlkrryvfyauwlx,ylxcybwu.-xjcbyiccrh;
yyyyLucwlcbyacrr,yfuykrr-cvlucwlcb--axcvyxcuyxjhewvby'lkhyhxcyhcch,
yyyyHgfkrcbyfiyerkhh,yecucilyfiy.kvsbfd--iwdkvcyawhlcb,yafuvyaklxyafcq"
yyyyKvylxchcyafubhywhyhgw.cy.kvsyVwrw--kvylxcywvsjkhxyfiyxkhyxcwul,
yyyyMfjrbyxcyvflyuciuwkvyiufdyaccgkvs--xkhyjvakrrkvsylcwuhyejuhlyifulxq
yyyyLxcvybcgwulkvs,yiwkuy.chkvkw--lfrbylfyBwdwowvlkywrr,
yyyyWrrylxwlyPwxjmwyxwbyhgf.cv--wrrylx'ycdflkfvyxcyecluwocbq




EFF.y  KKKq


yyyyXcwukvsylxkh,yiwkuyBwdwowvlk--wrrywewvbfvcbylfyxcuysukciq
yyyyLxkv.kvsyhlkrrylxwlyxcyawhyVwrw--lfy.chkvkwyhgw.cywswkvq
yyyy"Sf,y.chkvkw,ysf,yc wdkvc--Pwxjmw,ywvbywrryxkhywmlh,
yyyyHkrcvlylw.cylxoyhlwvbyechkbcyxkd--wvbyfehcupcyaxwlc'cuyxcybfch;
yyyyVfu,y.chkvkw,yecylxcucyskpcvyxkd--ikucyxkhyrwefjuhylfywhhkhl:
yyyyVcklxcuyecylxcucyskpcvyxkdyawlcu--kvylxoyxwhlc,ywlyxkhybcdwvb:
yyyyWrr,yaxcvylxfjyxwhlyacrryfehcupcbyxkd--cpcuoywmlylfydcyucgcwl,
yyyyCpcuoywmlylxwlydfucylxwvydfulwr--hccdhykvyPwxjmw,yucrwlcq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcbyeoyBwdwowvlk--hluwksxly.chkvkwyacvlywswkv,
yyyyFiylxcylwdcuyfiylxcyxfuhch--cpcuoywmlyfehcupcb,ymwdcyewm.;
yyyyCpcuoywmlywhyhxcyxwbyhccvykl--hxcylfyBwdwowvlkylfrb:
yyyyCpcuoydfucylxwvydfulwryafvbcu--lxwlykvyPwxjmwywggcwucbq

yyyy.CHKVKWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Pcuoyxfroykhyxc,yvcpcu--dfulwrydwv,ykvywrrydoyrkic,
yyyyXwpcyKyhccv,yfuyxwpcyKyxcwubyfi--Bwdwowvlk,yrk.cylfyxkdq
yyyyXcybucayvcwuylxcyrfaroycvluwvmc--efacbyvflybfavyxkhyhlwlcroyxcwb;
yyyyFvylxcykvhlwvl,ywhyklyhwayxkd--jgylx'yc gwvbkvsygfulwryufhcq
yyyyIfuylxcyjhcyfiyUkljgwuvw--djmxywvbypwukfjhypkwvbhymwdc;[131]
yyyyHcvl,ywhydccl,yeoyufowryExkdw--wvbywejvbwvlywvkdwryiffbq
yyyyLxchcylfymrcwvhc,yaklxydcclywerjlkfv--acucymwgwmkfjhypchhcrhyeufjsxl;
yyyyWhyxcyrff.cbyfvylxcd,ylxcypchhcrh--hlffb,yjgfvylxcykvhlwvl,yijrrq
yyyyLxcv,ylxcydcclywerjlkfvhyfpcu--Pwxjmwyacvlyifulx,ywvbylff.,
yyyyFiylxcyaklxcucbysuwhhywyxwvbijr--xcrbyklyjgawubylfylxcyhjv:
yyyyFvylxcykvhlwvl,yeuksxlroyerwtkvs--hxfvcylxcywrr-mfvhjdkvsyikucq
yyyyDjmxyKydwupcrrcbywlylxcyafvbcu--wvbykvydjlcywdwtcdcvlyhlffb;
yyyyRf,ywyhcmfvbysucwlcuydwupcr--hjbbcvyejuhlyjgfvydoyhksxl!
yyyyXcylxwlyerwtkvsyikucyhlffbyxwvbrkvs--oclyjvxwudcb,yjvejuvcb,yucdwkvcbq
yyyyWlyxkhyakrryirfahyifulxylxcyawlcu--wlyxkhyakrryklyhkv.hywswkvq
yyyyWvbywvflxcuysucwlcuyafvbcu--rwbo,ybkbyKylxcucyecxfrb:
yyyyXcylxcyirfacuhyaxkmxyxcyxwbylw.cv--scvlroydfjrbcbykvyxkhyxwvbh,
yyyyKvyxkhyxwvbhylxcyirfacuh,yhfydfjrbcb--whyaklxyiuchxcvkvsyrkicycvbjcb,
yyyyErfhhfdcbyfjlyaklxyukmxcuyiuwsuwvmc--hlffbycucmlyjgfvylxckuyhlcdh:
yyyyWrrylxchcydwupcrhyxwpkvsyvflcb--hakilroymwdcyKyewm.ylfylxccq"

yyyyBWDWOWVLKy_hgw.c_q

yyyyBwdwowvlkyaxcvylxchcyafvbcuh--fiylxcy.kvsyfiydcvyhxcyxcwub,
yyyyLxfjsxlyoclydfucy.kvsyVwrwyguchcvl--lxfjsxlyxcuyjldfhlyakhxywmxkcpcbq
yyyyBccdkvsyhlkrryxcuyufowrymfvhful--kvylxcyifudyfiyPwxjmw,
yyyyAklxywyscvlrcypfkmcywvbyaccgkvs--lfy.chkvkwyhgw.cywswkv:
yyyy"Sf,ywswkv,y.chkvkw,yhcmucl--wvbyeoyPwxjmwyjvhccv,
yyyyFiylxfhcypkwvbhyeukvsywygfulkfv--eoyxkhyh.krijryxwvbygucgwucb:"
yyyyHxcylfyPwxjmwywggufwmxkvs--jvgcumckpcbyhlfrcyhfilywawo
yyyyFiylxcyacrr-mff.cbydcwlywydfuhcr--awudyhxcyefucyklykvyxcuyxwhlc,
yyyyWvbylfyBwdwowvlkyswpcykl--iwkuy.chkvkw,yjvbcrwocbq
yyyyFiylxcyiffbygucgwucbyeoyVwrw--acrrylxcyirwpfjuybkbyhxcy.vfa;
yyyyLwhlkvsyklyhxcyhxukc.cbykvyluwvhgful--"Vwrwykhyofvymxwukflccuq"
yyyyLuokvsylxcvywyvcaycdflkfv--fiyxcuydfjlxywerjlkfvydwbc:[132]
yyyyHxcyxcuygwkuyfiykviwvlymxkrbucv--aklxy.chkvkwyhcvlylfyxkdq
yyyyHffvywhyxcyofjvsyKvbuwhcvw--wvbyxcuyrkllrcyeuflxcuyhwa,
yyyyJgyxcyhguwvs,yxkhywudhyafjvbyufjvbylxcd--lfyxkhyefhfdyifrbkvsyeflx;
yyyyAxcvyxcyswtcbyjgfvylxcymxkrbucv--rk.cylxcymxkrbucvyfiylxcysfbh,
yyyyWrryxkhyxcwulyf'cuirfacbyaklxygklo--wvbyjvakrrkvsylcwuhyeuf.cyifulxq
yyyyOclyVkhxwbxw'hyrfubygcumckpkvs--hxcyxkhyhlufvsycdflkfvydwu.cb,
yyyyIufdyxkhyxfrbyucrcwhcbylxcymxkrbucv--lfy.chkvkwyhgcw.kvsylxjh:
yyyy"Fx!yhfyrk.cydkvcyfavylakvymxkrbucv--awhyofvyrfpcroykviwvlygwku,
yyyyHcckvsylxcdylxjhyjvc gcmlcb--xwpcyKyeuf.cvyfjlykvylcwuh:
yyyyKiyhfyfilylxfjymfdchlyxklxcu--dcvyhfdcycpkryakrryhjhgcml,
yyyyAcyaklxkvylxkhyrwvbywucyhluwvscuh--ecwjlcfjhydwkbcv,ygwulykvygcwmcq"




EFF.y  KPq


yyyyHcckvsylxcygufifjvbycdflkfv--fiylxwlyakhchly.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyGwhhkvsyewm.ykvyxwhlc,y.chkvkw--lfrbylfyBwdwowvlkywrr:
yyyyLxcvywswkvybkbyBwdwowvlk--dkhhkfvylfy.chkvkwyskpc,
yyyyLfywggufwmxyxcuyufowrydflxcu--kvyxcuyxwhlcyxcuyrfubylfyhccq
yyyy"Pwxjmwyac'pcyawlmxcbydfhlymrfhcro--Vwrwyacyhjhgcmlyxkdyhlkrr;
yyyyFvroyiufdyxkhyifudyacybfjelyxkd--lxkhydohcriyafjrbyiwkvyecxfrbq
yyyyMwjhcyxkdycvlcuyxcuc,ydoydflxcu--lfydoyakhxchymfvbchmcvb;
yyyy.vfavyfuyjv.vfavylfydoyiwlxcu--rclyklyecybcmkbcbyvfaq"
yyyyEoylxwlyxwvbdwkbylxjhywmmfhlcb--lxcvylxcynjccvylfyExkdwylfrb
yyyyWrryxkhybwjsxlcu'hyhcmuclymfjvhcr--wvbylxcyuwzwyswpcywhhcvlq
yyyyKvhlwvlyiufdyxcuyhkucylxcygukvmchh--iufdyxcuydflxcuyrcwpcyfelwkvcb,
yyyyEwbcylxcdydw.cy.kvsyVwrwycvlcu--kvylxcymxwdecuyaxcucyhxcybacrlq
yyyyHjbbcvywhyxcyswtcbyjgfvyxcu--jgfvyBwdwowvlkyswtcb,
yyyyVwrw,yxcyawhyhcktcbyaklxywvsjkhx--wvbyaklxylcwuhyxkhycochyf'cuirfacbq
yyyyWvbyaxcvyBwdwowvlkyswtcbyfv--Vwrw,ylxjhywggufwmxkvsyvcwu,
yyyyAklxywvywsfvktkvsyhfuufa--awhylxcyvfercyrwboyhcktcbq
yyyyMrwb,ylxcv,ykvywyhmwurclydwvlrc--xwkuybkhxcpcrrcb,ydkuc-bcikrcb,[133]
yyyyJvlfyPwxjmwylxkhyrwvsjwsc--Bwdwowvlkylxjhywbbuchhcb:
yyyy"Pwxjmwyecxcrb'hlylxfjycpcu--wvyjguksxlywvbyvfercydwv,
yyyyAxfybcgwulcbywvbywewvbfvcb--kvylxcyaffb,yxkhyhrccgkvsyakic?
yyyyLxcyecrfpcbyakic,ywvbyerwdcrchh--kvylxcyakrbyaffb,yafuvyaklxysukci?
yyyyAxfyawhyxcyaxfylxjhyifuhff.yxcu?--axfyejlyVwrw,y.kvsyfiydcv?
yyyyLfylxcyrfubyfiycwulx,yiufdyifrro--axwlyfiicvmcymwvyKyxwpcyskpcv?
yyyyLxwlyxcyircb,yaklxkvylxcyifuchl--rcwpkvsydc,yeoyhrccgyfgguchhcb?
yyyyFgcvro,ylxcysfbhyuczcmlcb--awhyxcymxfhcvyeoydc,ydoyrfub:
yyyyMfjrbyxcyrcwpcylxcylujc,ylxcyrfpkvs--xcuylxwlyxwlxyxkhymxkrbucvyefuvc!
yyyyEoylxcyvjglkwryikuc,ykvyguchcvmc--fiylxcysfbh,yxcymrwhgcbydoyxwvb,
yyyy'Kyakrryec,'[134]ylxkhylujlxyxcygrksxlcb--axklxcuybkbyxcylxcvybcgwul?"
yyyyyyAxkrcywrrylxkhykvyeuf.cvywmmcvlh--hwbroyBwdwowvlkyhgf.c,
yyyyIufdyxcuycochylxcybufghyfiyhfuufa--irfacbykvymfgkfjhylfuucvlhybfavq
yyyyLxfhcybwu.ycoch,yaklxypcudckrymfuvcuh--lxjhyaklxylucderkvsydfkhljucybcacb,
yyyyAxcvy.kvsyVwrwyhwa,ywvbyswtcbyfv--lfylxcyhfuufaijryxcyhgw.cq
yyyy"SwdkvsylxwlyKyrfhlydoy.kvsbfd--'lawhyvflydkvcyfavysjkrloybccb,
yyyyKlyawhy.wrkyaufjsxlyaklxkvydc--xcvmcyklyawhyKyircbyiufdylxcc;
yyyyLxcucifucyxc,ykvylx'yxfjuyfiylukwr--hdkllcvyeoylxoyhmwlxkvsymjuhc,
yyyyKvylxcyakrbyaffbywhylxfjyawvbcuchl--sukcpkvsyvksxlywvbybwoyifuydc,
yyyy.wrkybacrlyaklxkvydoyefbo--ejuvkvsyaklxylxoygfacuijrymjuhc,
yyyyCpcuyejuvkvs,yikcumcu,yxfllcu--whyaxcvyikucykhyxcwgcbyfvyikucq
yyyyXc,yeoydoyucrkskfjhygwlkcvmc--doybcpflkfv,yvfayhjebjcb,
yyyyRf!ylxcycvbyfiywrryfjuyhfuufah--ecwjlkijr!ykhyvfaywlyxwvbq
yyyyK,ylxcycpkryfvcybcgwulcb,yxklxcuyxwpcydwbcyxwhlcylfymfdc;
yyyyIfuylxoyhw.c,yFyufjvb-rkdecb!yfvro;--flxcuyejhkvchhyxwpcyKyvfvcq
yyyyOcl,yFyxfaydwoyxksx-efuvyafdwv--iufdyxcuypfacb,yxcuygrksxlcbyrfub,
yyyyHacupkvs,ymxffhcywvflxcuyxjhewvb--cpcvywhylxfj,yFylucdercu,yafjrb'hl?
yyyyFpcuywrrylxcycwulxylxcyxcuwrbh--luwpcryeoylxcy.kvshymfddwvb,
yyyy'Vfaylxcybwjsxlcuyfiy.kvsyExkdw--akrrywyhcmfvbyxjhewvbymxffhc,
yyyy'Iuccyiufdycpcuoylkc,ywhyakrrhyhxc--whyxcuyiwvmoydwoyechccd,'
yyyyXcwukvsylxkh,ymwdcyxklxcuyhgccbkvs--.kvsyExwvswhjukykvyxwhlcq"
yyyyBwdwowvlk,yaxcvyiufdyVwrw--xcwubyhxcylxkhyxkhysukcpfjhymxwusc,
yyyyAklxyxcuyifrbcbyxwvbh,ywvbylucderkvs--lxjhylfyVwrwydwbcyucgro:
yyyy"Bfyvflydc,yFyvferc-dkvbcb--fiyhjmxyhxwdcrchhysjkrlyhjhgcml,
yyyyLxfj,yaxcvyKylxcysfbhyuczcmlcb--Vwrw,yaculydoymxfhcvyrfubq
yyyyFvroylxccylfyikvb,ylxcyEuwxdkvh--acvlylfylxcylcvyucskfvhyifulx,
yyyyMxwjvlkvsylfylxckuyxfroydcwhjuch--ejlylxcyafubhylxwlyKyxwbylwjsxlq
yyyyLxcvylxwlyEuwxdkvyakhc,yGwuvwbw--hjmxylxcyvwdcyxcyecwuh,yFy.kvs,
yyyyLxccykvy.fhwrw,ylxcygwrwmc--fiy.kvsyUkljgwuvwyhwaq
yyyyLxcucylfylxcc,ydoyafubhywbbuchhcbyxc--wvhacuylxcucyiufdylxccyucmckpcbq
yyyyKylxkhyhjelrcyakrcykdwskvcb--.kvsyfiydcv,ylfyeukvsylxccyxcucq
yyyyHkvmc,yechkbcylxohcri,yvfydfulwr--kvylxcyafurb,yaklxkvylxcybwo,
yyyyMfjrbybukpcyfvylxcyircclchlymfjuhcuh--ifuywyxjvbucbyOfzwvwhq
yyyyLfywllchlylxkhylujlx,yFydfvwumx!--lxjhyKylfjmxylxoyhwmucbyiccl;
yyyyCpcvykvyxcwulyxwpcyKymfddkllcb--vcpcuycpkrylxfjsxly'swkvhlylxccq
yyyyXcylxufjsxywrrylxcyafurbylxwlyawvbcuh--aklvchhylxcywrr-hcckvsyakvb,[135]
yyyyRclyxkdyvfayfiyrkicyecucwpcydc--kiykvylxkhy'swkvhlylxccyK'pcyhkvvcb:
yyyyWvbylxcyhjvylxwlydfpclxycpcu--fpcuywrrylxcyafurb,yfvyxksx,
yyyyRclyxkdyvfayfiyrkicyecucwpcydc--kiykvylxkhy'swkvhlylxccyK'pcyhkvvcbq
yyyyAklvchh,ylff,ylxcydffvylxwlygcudcwlch--cpcuoyeckvs'hykvdfhlylxfjsxl;
yyyyRclyxcuylffyfiyrkicyecucwpcydc--kiykvylxkhy'swkvhlylxccyK'pcyhkvvcbq
yyyyLxchcylxuccysfbhywucylxcoylxwlysfpcuv--lxchcylxuccyafurbh,yhfyrclylxcd
yyyyyyyyhgcw.;
yyyyLxkhydoyhwmucbylujlxywllchlylxco--fuylxkhybwoywewvbfvydcq"
yyyyyyLxjhywbzjucb,ywyhfrcdvyaklvchh--hgw.cylxcyakvbyiufdyfjlylxcywku;
yyyy"Hxcyxwlxybfvcyfuylxfjsxlyvfycpkr--Vwrw,y'lkhylxcylujlxyacyhgcw.:
yyyy.kvs,ylxcylucwhjucyfiyxcuypkuljc--acrryxwlxyBwdwowvlky.cgl,
yyyyAcyfjuhcrpchyxwpcyhccvywvbyawlmxcbyxcu--mrfhcroyifuylxuccyrkpcrfvsyocwuhq
yyyyLxkhyxcuyhjelrcyakrcyhxcygrfllcb--fvroyifuylxoywehcvlyhw.c,
yyyyIfuyechkbcylxohcriyvfydfulwr--dksxlywyxjvbucbyOfzwvwhybukpcq
yyyyLxfjyxwhlydclyaklxyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu--Exkdw'hybwjsxlcuydcclhyaklxylxcc,
yyyyMwhlywawoywrryzcwrfjhyhmujgrc--lfylxoyefhfdylw.cylxoyakicq"
yyyyyyCpcvywhylxjhylxcyakvbyawhyhgcw.kvs--irfacuhyicrryhxfacukvsywrr
yyyyyyyyyywufjvb:[136]
yyyyWvbylxcysfbhyhacclydjhkmyhfjvbcb--fvylxcytcgxouyirfwlkvsyrksxlq
yyyyWhyfvylxkhyhjugwhhkvsyafvbcu--ufowryVwrwyhlffbywvbyswtcb,
yyyyFiylxcyerwdcrchhyBwdwowvlk--dcrlcbywrryxkhyzcwrfjhybfjelhq
yyyyLxcvyeoybjhlywrryjvbcikrcb--xcylxcyxcwpcvroypchlygjlyfv,
yyyyLxfjsxlyjgfvylxcy.kvsyfiyHcugcvlh--wvbyxkhygufgcuyifudyuchjdcbq
yyyyKvyxkhyfavygufjbyifudyxcuyxjhewvb--Exkdw'hyufowrybwjsxlcuyhwa,
yyyyRfjbyhxcyhxukc.cb,ylxcyjvbchgkhcb--wvbycdeuwmcbylxcy.kvsyfiydcvq
yyyyExkdw'hybwjsxlcu,ylff,y.kvsyVwrw--hxkvkvsysrfukfjhywhyfiyfrb,
yyyyMrwhgcbyjvlfyxkhyxcwul,ywvbyifvbrcb--scvlroylxwlyhacclykviwvlygwkuq
yyyyLxcvyxcuyiwmcyjgfvyxkhyefhfd--whylxcyrfpcroygukvmchhyrwkb,
yyyyKvyxcuymwrdywvbyscvlrcyhfuufa--hfilroyhksxcbylxcyrfvs-cocbynjccv:
yyyyXc,ylxwlyifudyhlkrrydkuc-bcikrcb--whyxcymrwhgcbyaklxyhdkrcyhcucvc,
yyyyRfvsylxcy.kvsyfiydcvyhlffbyhkrcvl--kvylxcycmhlwmoyfiyafcq
yyyyWrrylxcylwrcyfiyBwdwowvlk--wvbyfiyVwrwywrrylxcylwrc,
yyyyLfy.kvsyExkdwykvyxcuyluwvhgful--lfrbyPkbwuexw'hydflxcu-njccvq
yyyyLxcvyucgrkcbylxwlydksxloydfvwumx--"Vwrw,yxkhywerjlkfvhybfvc,
yyyyLxjhyuczfkvcbylfyBwdwowvlk--Kylf-dfuufayakrryecxfrbq"

yyyyPUKXWBWHPWy_hgw.c_q

yyyyLxcoylxcyrkpcrfvsyvksxlylfsclxcu--hrfayucrwlcb,ycwmxylfycwmx,
yyyyWrrylxckuyawvbcukvshykvylxcyifuchl--wvbycwmxyakrbywbpcvljucyhluwvscq
yyyyKvy.kvsyExkdw'hyufowrygwrwmc--hljbokvsycwmxylxcyflxcu'hyerkhh,
yyyyAklxysrwbyxcwulh,yPkbwuexw'hygukvmchh--wvbylxcy.kvsroyVwrwybacrlq
yyyyKvylxckuyifjulxyocwuyfiybkpfumcdcvl--ucjvklcbylfyxkhyakic,
yyyyUkmxroyiuwjsxlyaklxycpcuoyerchhkvs--wlylxcyxcksxlyfiyzfoyxcyhlffbq
yyyyBwdwowvlkylffyuc-acbbcb--hlkrrykvmucwhkvsykvyxcuyerkhh,
yyyyRk.cywhylxcysrwbycwulxylfyawlcu--fgcvhyklhyxwri-ejbbkvsyiujklh,
yyyyHxcyfiyacwukvchhyjvmfvhmkfjh,--hfflxcbycwmxysukci,ywvbyijrrycwmxyzfo,
yyyyCpcuoyakhxyijrikrrcb,yhxfvcyeuksxlro--whylxcyvksxl,yaxcvyxksxylxcydffvq




EFF.y  Pq


yyyyAxcvylxwlyvksxlyawhygwhhcbywvbyfpcu--Vwrw,ylxwlyxksx-skilcby.kvs,
yyyyAcbbcbylfyPkbwuexw'hybwjsxlcu--kvyiklyxfjuyxcuyhkucyecxcrbq
yyyyXjderoyVwrwygwkbyxkhyxfdwsc--lfylxcyiwlxcuyfiyxkhynjccv,
yyyyUcpcucvlroybkbyBwdwowvlk--gwoyxcuyxfdwscylfyxcuyhkucq
yyyyXkdyucmckpcbylxcyufowryExkdw--whyxkhyhfv,yaklxyxksxchlyzfo,
yyyyXfvfjucb,ywhyecmwdcyxkd,yvfero:--lxcvymfvhfrcbylxwlydfvwumxyakhc
yyyyBwdwowvlk,ylfy.kvsyVwrw--ucmfvmkrcb,ylxcyiwklxijryakicq
yyyyUfowryVwrw,ywrrylxchcyxfvfjuh--whyxkhyxfdwscydccl,yucmckpcb;
yyyyWvbykvyikllkvsylcudh,ybcpflkfv--lfyxkhyufowryhkucybcmrwucbq
yyyyDksxloylxcv,ylxufjsxywrrylxcymklo--uwvylxcyaw.cvkvsyhfjvbyfiyzfo;
yyyyWrrykvycpcuoyhlucclyc jrlkvs--wly.kvsyVwrw'hyhwicyucljuvq
yyyyWrrylxcymkloyaklxylxckuyewvvcuh--wvbyaklxyswurwvbhybcm.cbylxcoyifulxq
yyyyWrrylxcyufowryhlucclh,yacrryawlcucb--wvbyaklxyhlwkvrchhyirfacuhyacucyhlucav;
yyyyWvbyiufdybffuylfybffuylxcyswurwvbh--fiyichlffvkvsyirfacuhyacucyxjvs;
yyyyWvbyfiywrrylxcysfbhylxcywrlwuh--acucyaklxyikllkvsyuklchywbfuvcbq
yyyyUkljgwuvwyxcwubyfiyVwrw--kvylxcyifudyfiyPwxjmw,
yyyyVfayuc-acb,ylfyBwdwowvlk--wvbylxcy.kvsyfiydcvyuczfkmcbq
yyyyLfylxcy.kvs,yecifucyxkhyguchcvmc--Vwrwymfjulcfjhydwbcyc mjhcq
yyyyKvyxkhyljuvyWofbxow'hydfvwumx--kvyrk.cymfjulcfjhyrwvsjwscyhgw.cq
yyyyXc,yucmckpcbylxjhyxfhgklwero--afvbcukvsylfyVkhxwbxw'hy.kvs,
yyyy"Erkhhyecyaklxylxcc,yucjvklcb--lfylxoynjccv:"y'lawhylxjhyxcyhwkbq
yyyy"XwpcyKywjsxlyfiicvhkpcycpcu--bfvcylfylxcc,yfuyhwkb,yFy.kvs
yyyyAxkrhlyjv.vfav,yaklxkvydoygwrwmc--lxfjyaculybacrrkvs,y.kvsyfiydcv?
yyyyKiybchksvcbyfuyjvbchksvkvs--wvoyhkvsrcywmlyK'pcybfvc
yyyyKydksxlyakhxyjvbfvc,ylxoygwubfv--suwvlydc,yKyechccmxylxcc,y.kvsq"

yyyyVWRWy_hgw.c_q

yyyy"Vflyfuybccbyfuyafubybkhmfjulcfjh--vflylxcyhrksxlchlyxwhlylxfjybfvc;
yyyyXwbhlylxfj,yKydksxlyvflyuchcvlykl--iuccroyafjrbyKygwubfvywrrq
yyyyLxfjyfiyfrb,ydoyiukcvb,ydoy.kvhdwv--acul,yFyhfpcucksvyfiydcv,
yyyyIufdylxkhylkdcyxcvmcifulxylxoyiukcvbhxkg--ecydoysrfuoywvbydoyzfoq
yyyyCpcuoyakhxywvlkmkgwlcb--grcwhwvlroyKybacrlyaklxylxcc,
yyyyWhykvydkvcyfavyufowrygwrwmc--bacrlyKycpcu,y.kvs,ykvylxkvcq
yyyyDoyhjugwhhkvsyh.krrykvyxfuhch--wrrykhylxkvcylxwlyKygfhhchh;
yyyyLxwlyfvylxccyechlfayKysrwbro--ki,yFy.kvs,yklyhccdylxccysffbq"
yyyyyyVwrwylxjhylfyUkljgwuvw--swpcyxkhyhjelrcyh.krrykvyhlccbh,
yyyySrwbroyxcyucmckpcbylxcyguchcvl--aklxycwmxyucsjrwlkfvydcclq
yyyySkilcbyaklxylxwlygucmkfjhy.vfarcbsc--lxcvyExwvswhjukylxcy.kvs,
yyyyXfdcyucljuvcbylfyxkhyfavymklo--aklxywvflxcuymxwukflccuq
yyyyUkljgwuvwylxjhybcgwulcb--Vwrw,ylxcvylxcy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyKvylxcymkloyfiy.jvbkvw--hfzfjuvcbyifuyvfyrcvslxyfiylkdcq




EFF.y  PKq


yyyyLxcucywydfvlxyaxcvyxcyxwbyhfzfjuvcb--fiy.kvsyExkdwylw.kvsyrcwpc,
yyyySjwubcbyejlyeoyicaywllcvbwvlh--lfyVkhxwbxwylff.yxkhyawoq
yyyyAklxywyhkvsrcyhgrcvbkbymxwukfl--wvbyaklxycrcgxwvlhyhk lccv,
yyyyWvbyaklxyikiloywudcbyxfuhcdcv--wvbyhk yxjvbucbydcvyfvyiffl;
yyyyDw.kvs,ywhy'lacuc,ycwulxylfylucderc--xwhlcvkvsyfvawub,ybkbylxcy.kvs,
yyyyCvlcuywaijrykvyxkhywvscu--wvbylcuukikmykvyxkhyhgccbq
yyyyLxcvylxcyhfvyfiyPkuwhcvw--lfy.kvsyGjhx.wuwybucayvcwu;
yyyy"Grwoyacyfvmcywswkv,"ylxcvyhwkbyxc--"djmxylxcyacwrlxyKyxwpcywmnjkucb:
yyyyWrryKyxwpc,ycpcvyBwdwowvlk--cpcuoylucwhjucyKygfhhchh,
yyyyHclyKyvfayjgfvylxcyxwtwub--Gjhx.wuw,ylxoy.kvsbfdylxfj:
yyyyKvylxcyswdcyfvmcydfucymfvlcvbyac--'lkhydoyhcllrcbygjugfhcylxkh,
yyyyEuflxcu,ywlywyhkvsrcyxwtwub--grwoyacyefrbroyifuyfjuyrkpchq
yyyyIufdywvflxcuyxcyaxfylucwhjuch--xcyaxfydksxloyucwrdyxwlxyafv,
yyyy'Lkhychlccdcbywyefjvbcvybjlo--lfygrwoyewm.ylxcymfjvlcuyswdcq
yyyyKiylxfjyhxukv.chlyiufdylxcyxwtwub--ecyfjuyswdcylxcyhlukicyfiyhafubh,
yyyyDcclyacykvylxcyhkvsrcymfdewl--wrryfjuybkiicucvmcylfybcmkbcq
yyyyWvyxcucbklwuoy.kvsbfd--dwoyeoywvoydcwvhyecyhfjsxl,
yyyyEcyuc-afvyeoywvoypcvljuc--lxkhylxcydw kdyfiylxcyakhcq
yyyyFiylafymfjuhchyhclyecifucylxcc--Gjhx.wuw,ylxcyfglkfvydw.c,
yyyyFuykvygrwoylfyhlwvbylxcyxwtwub--fuykvyewllrcyhluclmxylxcyefaq"
yyyyEoyVkhxwbxw'hyrfubylxjhymxwrrcvscb--Gjhx.wuw,yaklxyhdkrcyhjgguchhcb,
yyyyWhyhcmjucyfiycwhoypkmlfuo--wvhacucbylfylxcyrfubyfiycwulx;
yyyy"Fxyaxwlyzfo!ywejvbwvlylucwhjuch--lxfjyxwhlyafv,ywswkvylfygrwo;
yyyyFxyaxwlyzfo!yfiyBwdwowvlk--vfaylxcyxwub-afvyguktcykhydkvc:
yyyyFxyaxwlyzfo!ywswkvylxfjyrkpchl--aklxylxoymfvhful,ydksxloywudcb!
yyyyAklxylxcyacwrlxyKyakvyecbcm.cb--hffvyhxwrryExkdw'hybwjsxlcuyhlwvb,
yyyyEoydoyhkbc,ywhyeoysucwlyKvbuw--hlwvbhylxcyWghwuwykvyxcwpcvq[137]
yyyyHlkrryfvylxccyxwlxybacrlydoydcdfuo--hlkrryK'pcyawklcb,y.kvs,yifuylxcc;
yyyyKvylxcygrwoyKyikvbyvfyuwgljuc--ejly'swkvhly.kvhdcvyrk.cylxohcriq
yyyyAxcvylxkhybwoylxcyufjvb-rkdecbygukvmchh--Bwdwowvlk,yjvbchgkhcb,
yyyyKyhxwrryakv,yKyuchlymfvlcvlcb--hlkrryaklxkvydkvcyxcwulyhxcybacrrhq"
yyyyyyXcwukvsyxkhymfvlcdgljfjhyrwvsjwsc--iuwvlkmroylxjhygfjukvsyifulx,
yyyyAklxyxkhyhafubylx'ykvbksvwvlyVwrw--iwkvyxwbyhcpcucbyfiiyxkhyxcwbq
yyyyEjlyaklxyxwjsxloyhdkrc,yaklxywvscu--srwukvsykvyxkhyerffb-ucbycoch,
yyyy"Grwoyacyvfa,yvfuylwr.yacyrfvscu--mfvnjcucb,ylxfj'rlyvfyrfvscuylwr.q"
yyyyLxcvyfiyGjhx.wuwylxcyswdkvs--wvbyfiyVwrwyhluwksxlyecswv:
yyyyKvywyhkvsrcylxufayeoyVwrw--awhylxcygcukrfjhypcvljucyswkvcb;
yyyyGjhx.wuw,yxkhysfrb,yxkhyzcacrh--wlyfvcyxwtwubywrryawhyafv!
yyyyGjhx.wuw,ykvygrwoylxjhymfvnjcucb--aklxywyhdkrcylxcy.kvsyuczfkvcb:
yyyy"Dkvcywswkvykhywrrylxkhy.kvsbfd--jvbkhljuecb,yklhyifchyf'cumfdcq
yyyyIwrrcvy.kvs!yPkbwuexw'hybwjsxlcu--eoylxkvcycochydwoyvc'cuyecyhccvq
yyyyLxfjywulyvfa,yaklxywrrylxoyxfjhcxfrb--jvlfywezcmlyhrwpcuoyhjv.q
yyyyVflylxohcriywmxkcpcbylxcymfvnjchl--lxwlyhjebjcbydcyxcuclfifuc!
yyyy'Lawhywmxkcpcbyeoydksxlkcuy.wrk--lxwlylxfjybkbhlyvfl,yiffr,ygcumckpcq
yyyyOclydoyauwlx,yeoyxkdycv.kvbrcb--akrryKyvfly'swkvhlylxccybkucml;
yyyyRkpcylxfjyxcvmcifulxywlylxoygrcwhjuc--iuccroyKylxoyrkicyechlfa,
yyyyWvbyfiylxkvcychlwlcywvbyhjehlwvmc--skpcyKylxccylxoyikllkvsyhxwucq
yyyyHjmxydoygrcwhjuc,ykvylxoyacriwuc--xcuf,ybfyKylw.cybcrksxl,
yyyyWvbydkvcyjvwewlcbyiukcvbhxkg--vcpcuyhxwrryiufdylxccybcgwulq
yyyyGjhx.wuw,ylxfjywulydoyeuflxcu--dwo'hlylxfjyrkpcywvyxjvbucbyocwuh!"
yyyyyyVwrwylxjhymfvhfrcbyxkhyeuflxcu--kvyxkhymfvhmkfjhygfacuywvbyhlucvslx,
yyyyHcvlyxkdyxfdcylfyxkhyfavymklo--fvmcycdeuwmkvs,yfvmcywswkvq
yyyyGjhx.wuw,ylxjhyikvbkvsymfdiful--wvhacucbylfyVkhxwbxw'hyrfub,
yyyyWvhacucbyxcylfyGjvowhrf.w--efakvsyrfayaklxyifrbcbyxwvbh:
yyyy"Cpcurwhlkvsyecylxoysrfuo!ydwo'hlylxfjyrkpcylcvylxfjhwvbyocwuh!
yyyyLxwlydoyrkicylfydcylxfjysuwvlchl--wvbywymkloyifuydkvcyxfdc!"
yyyyyyXfhgklweroycvlculwkvcb--lxcucywydfvlxyaxcvyxcyxwbybacrl,
yyyyZfoijrylfyxkhyfavygufjbymklo--Gjhx.wuw,yaklxywrryxkhy.kv,
yyyyAklxywyacrr-wggfkvlcbywudo--fiywllcvbwvlyhrwpchywvyxfhl,
yyyyHxkvkvsyrk.cylxcyhjvybcgwulcb,--kvyxkhyijrrydcukbkwvyfueq
yyyyyyGjhx.wuwylxjhymufavcbyaklxyukmxch--lxjhyjvxwudcb,yaxcvyxcybkhdkhhcb,[138]
yyyyCvlcucbylxcvyxkhyufowrymklo--aklxyhjugwhhkvsygfdg,ylxcy.kvs:
yyyyWhyxcycvlcucb,ylfyxkhyhjezcmlh--Vwrwyhgw.cylxcyafubhyfiygcwmcq

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

yyyyIufdylxcymklo,yiufdylxcymfjvluo--wrr,yaklxyxwkuycucmlyaklxyzfo,
yyyyMwdc,yaklxyifrbcbyxwvbhywbbuchhcbyxkd--wvbylxcymfjvhcrrfuhyfiyhlwlcq
yyyy"Xwggoywucyacyvfa,yFydfvwumx--kvylxcymklo,ykvylxcyikcrbh,
yyyyHcllkvsyifulxylfybfylxccyxfdwsc--whylfyKvbuwywrrylxcysfbhq"
yyyyyyLxcvywlygcwmcylxcyluwvnjkrymklo--lxcyikuhlyichlwrysrwbvchhyf'cu,
yyyyAklxywydksxloyxfhlychmfulcb--Bwdwowvlkyeufjsxlyxcyxfdcq
yyyyBwdwowvlkyukmxykvylucwhjuch--kvyxcuyiwlxcu'hyerchhkvshyukmx,
yyyySrwbybkhdkhhcbylxcydksxlo-dkvbcb--Exkdw,yicwuijrykvyxkhyhlucvslxq
yyyyAklxylxcybwjsxlcuyfiyPkbwuexw--aklxyxkhymxkrbucvykvyxkhyzfo,
yyyyVwrwyrkpcb,ywhyrkpchylxcyhfpcucksv--fiylxcysfbhykvyVwvbwvwq[139]
yyyyUc-whmcvbcbylxjhylfysrfuo--xc,ywdfvsylxcy.kvshyfiycwulx,
yyyyUjrcbyxkhyucwrdykvyZwdejbakgw[140]--lxjhyuc-afv,yaklxyxksxchlyiwdc;
yyyyWvbywrryxfroyuklchygcuifudcbyxc--aklxybcpfjlydjvkikmcvmcq




LXCyBCWLXyFIyOWZVWBWLLWq


yyyyLxkhyc luwmlyiufdylxcyUwdwowvwyxwhyeccvycbklcbyeoyDqyMxcto,
yyyyaklxywyiuccyluwvhrwlkfvykvlfyIucvmxygufhcyeoyDqyEfjuvfji,yw
yyyyrklcuwrypcuhkfvykvlfyRwlkv,ywvbywysuwddwlkmwrymfddcvlwuoywvb
yyyyvflchyeoylxcycbklfuq

yyyyLxufjsxylxcywulhyfiyfvcyfiyxkhyakpchy.wk.éoí,ylfyaxfdyxcyxwb
yyyydwbcywvykvmwjlkfjhypfaylfysuwvlyxcuybcdwvb,yBwhwuwlxwykh
yyyyferkscbylfyhcvbyxkhypkmlfukfjhyhfvyUwdwykvlfyewvkhxdcvlywl
yyyylxcypcuoydfdcvlyfiyxkhydwuukwscyaklxylxcyecwjlkijryHklwqyUwdw
yyyykhywmmfdgwvkcbykvyxkhyc krcyeoyRw.hxdwvwqyLxcyifrrfakvs
yyyycgkhfbcybchmukechylxcydkhcuoywvbybkhluchhyfiylxcyiwlxcu,
yyyybcgukpcbyfiyxkhyiwpfjuklcyhfvq




LXCyBCWLXyFIyOWZVWBWLLWq


yyyyHmwumcyUwdwylfylxcyakrbcuvchh--xwbyaklxyxkhyofjvscuyeuflxcuysfvc,
yyyyWewvbfvcbylfyxkhybccgybkhluchh--.kvsyBwhwuwlxwyhwlcywrfvcq
yyyyJgfvyxkhyhfvhylfyc krcybukpcv--axcvylxfjsxlylxwly.kvs,ywhyKvbuwyeuksxl,
yyyyBwu.vchhymwdcyf'cuyxkd,ywhykvyxcwpcv--axcvygwrchylx'ycmrkghcbyhjvyxkhyrksxlq
yyyyHk ybwohyxcyhwlc,ywvbydfjuvcbywvbygkvcb--ifuyUwdwywrrylxwlyacwuoylkdc,
yyyyWlydkbvksxlyfvyxkhyawvbcukvsydkvb--ufhcyjgyxkhyfrbyifusfllcvymukdcq
yyyyXkhynjccvy.wjhwrow,ylxcybkpkvc--wbbuchhcbyxc,ywhyhxcyuchlcbyvcwu:
yyyy".wjhwrow,ykiylxfjyaw.'hl,ykvmrkvc--lfylxoyrfub'hyhgccmxylxoyucwboycwuq
yyyyAxwlcpcuybccb,yfuysffbyfuykrr--eoydwv,yfxyerchhcbynjccv,ykhyaufjsxl,
yyyyKlhygufgcuyiujklyxcyswlxcuhyhlkrr--eoylkdcylfyhrfaygcuicmlkfvyeufjsxlq
yyyyXcyaxfylxcyfggfhkvsymfjvhcr'hyacksxl--mfdgwuchyvflykvyxkhyzjbsdcvlymffr,
yyyyFuydkhcuoyfuyerkhhyxkhyiwlc--wdfvsylxcyhwscykhybccdcbywyiffrq
yyyyWhyfvcylxwlynjklhylxcyWduwyefacu--lxcyeuksxlyGwrwhw'hygukbcylfyswkv,
yyyyDfm.cbyeoylxcygufdkhcyfiyklhyirfacu--hcc.hyklhyjvukgcvkvsyiujklykvypwkvq
yyyyHfyKylxcyrfpcroyWduwyrcil[141]--ifuylxcyGwrwhw'hyewuucvyerffd,[142]
yyyyLxufjsxydkvcyfavyiwlwrycuufuy'ucil--fiyewvkhxcbyUwdw,ydfjuvykvysrffdq
yyyy.wjhwrow!ykvydoycwuroyofjlx--eoydoy.ccvywuufaywlyklhydwu.,
yyyyWkdcbyaklxylffyhjucywvbybcwbroylujlx--awhyaufjsxlywybccbydfhlyicrrywvbybwu.q
yyyyWlyrcvslxylxcycpkrylxwlyKybkb--xwlxyiwrrcvyjgfvydoyiwlwryxcwb,[143]
yyyyWhyaxcvyfvyhjelrcygfkhfvyxkb--wvyjvhjhgcmlkvsymxkrbyxwlxyicb;
yyyyCpcvywhylxwlymxkrbyjvakllkvsro--xwlxydwbcylxcygfkhfvfjhyiwucyxkhyiffb,
yyyyCpcvyhfykvyksvfuwvmcyeoydc--awhyaufjsxlylxwlybccbyfiysjkrlywvbyerffbq
yyyyJvacbyaculylxfjykvypkuskvyerffd--wvbyKykvyofjlx'hybcrkmkfjhygukdc,
yyyyLxcyhcwhfvyfiylxcyuwkvhyxwbymfdc--lxwlyhfilywvbyrfpc-cv.kvbrkvsylkdcq
yyyyCwulx'hydfkhljucywrrywehfuecb,ylxcyhjv--lxufjsxywrrylxcyafurbyklhyawudlx
yyyyyyyyxwbyhgucwb,
yyyyLjuvcbyiufdylxcyvfulx,yklhymfjuhcyecsjv--axcucyxwjvlylxcyhgkuklhyfiylxc
yyyyyyyybcwb![144]
yyyySwlxcukvsyf'cuywrrylx'yxfuktfv'hyefjvb--fvyxksxylxcyacrmfdcymrfjbh
yyyyyyyywggcwucb,[145]
yyyyC jrlkvsywrrylxcyekubhyircayufjvb--muwvch,ymjm.ffh,ygcwmfm.h,yircaywvb
yyyyyyyypccucbq
yyyyWvbywrrybfavycwmxyakbc-awlcu'byhxfuc--lxcylufjercb,yoclyhlkrryrkdgkbyirffbh,
yyyyFpcuylxckuyewv.hyecswvylfygfju--whyf'cuylxcdyxjvsylxcyejuhlkvsymrfjbhq
yyyyWvb,yhwljuwlcyaklxymrfjb-efuvybca--lxcysrkllcukvsypcubwvl-dwvlrcbycwulx,
yyyyLxcymjm.ffhywvbylxcygcwmfm.hyirca--bkhgjlkvsywhykvybujv.cvydkulxq
yyyyKvyhjmxywylkdc,yhfyhfil,yhfyerwvb--fxyecwjlkijr!yKymxwvmcbylfysf,
yyyyAklxynjkpcu,ywvbyaklxyefaykvyxwvb--axcucymrcwuyHwuwoj'hyawlcuhyirfaq
yyyyKiyxwgroylfylxcyukpcu'hyeukv.--wlyvksxlylxcyejiiwrfydksxlyhluwo,
yyyyFuycrcgxwvl,ylxcyhlucwdylfybukv.,--kvlcvlydoyhwpwscyswdcylfyhrwo,
yyyyLxcvyfiywyawlcuymujkhc,ywhyhrfa--klyikrrcb,ylxcysjusrkvsyhfjvbyKyxcwub,
yyyyVfjsxlyhwayK,yejlylxcyhjrrcvyrfa--fiycrcgxwvlylxwlyhfjvbywggcwucbq
yyyyLxcyhakilyacrr-icwlxcucbywuufayK--jgfvylxcyefahlukvsyikllkvsyhluwksxl,
yyyyLfawubylxcyhfjvbylxcyhxwilyrclyiro--wx,ymujcrroybcmckpcbyeoyiwlc!
yyyyLxcyakvscbywuufayhmwumcyxwbyirfav--wvbyhmwumcyxwbyucwmxcbyklhybchlkvcbywkd,
yyyy'Wxydc,yK'dyhrwkv,'ywyiccercydfwv--kvylucderkvsyxjdwvywmmcvlhymwdcq
yyyy'Wxyaxcvmcyxwlxymfdcylxkhyiwlwryhxwil--wswkvhlywygffuyucmrjhcyrk.cydc,
yyyyAxfyhxflylxwlyefrlyaklxybcwbroymuwil--wrwh!yaxwlymujcrydwvykhyxc?
yyyyWlylxcyrfvcydkbvksxlyxwbyKymfdc--lfybuwaylxcyukpcu'hyrkdgkbyirffb,
yyyyWvbyxcucywdyhlujm.ylfybcwlx,yeoyaxfd?--wxyaxfhcylxkhyaufvsijrybccbyfiyerffbq
yyyyWrwh!ywvbykvydoygwucvl'hyxcwul--lxcyfrb,ylxcyerkvb,ywvbyxwubroyicb,
yyyyKvylxcyakrbyaffb,yxwlxygkcumcbylxcybwul--lxwlyxcucyxwlxyhlujm.ylxcku
yyyyyyyyfiihgukvsybcwbq
yyyyWx,ybccbydfhlygufiklrchhywhyafuhl--wybccbyfiyawvlfvyjhcrchhysjkrl;
yyyyWhylxfjsxywygjgkr'hyxwvbywmmjuh'b[146]--xkhyxfroydwhlcu'hyerffbyxwbyhgkrlq
yyyyEjlyvflydkvcyfavyjvlkdcroyiwlc--klykhyvflylxwlyaxkmxyKybcgrfuc,
yyyyDoyerkvb,ydoywscbygwucvlhyhlwlc--'lkhylxckuybkhluchhywiirkmlhydcydfucq
yyyyLxwlyhksxlrchhygwku,yifuydwvoywybwo--iufdydcylxckuyhmwvloyiffbyxwpcycwuvcb,
yyyyAxwlyrflykhylxckuh,yaxcvyK'dywawo--lfylxcyikpcycrcdcvlhyucljuvcb?[147]
yyyyWrk.cywrryauclmxcbylxco,ywhyK--wx,yaxfhcylxkhylukgrcybccbyfiyerffb?
yyyyIfuyaxfylxcyxcuehyakrryvfayhjggro--lxcyufflh,ylxcyiujkl,ylxckuyerwdcrchh
yyyyyyyyiffb?'
yyyyDoylufjercbyhfjr,ylxwlygrwkvlkpcydfwv--vfyhffvcuyxcwub,yhfyiwkvlywvbyrfa,
yyyyLucdercbylfyrff.yfvyaxwlyK'bybfvc--icrryiufdydoyhxjbbcukvsyxwvbydoyefaq
yyyyHakilyKyujhxcbyjg,yKyhwayxkdylxcuc--xcwul-gkcumcb,ywvbyiwrr'vylxcyhlucwd
yyyyyyyyechkbc,
yyyyLxwlyxcudklyefoyaklxy.vfllcbyxwku--xkhymrflxkvsyawhylxcyerwm.ybccu'hyxkbcq
yyyyFvydcydfhlygklcfjhyljuvcbyxkhyrff.--xkhyafjvbcbyeucwhlymfjrbyhmwumcyuchgkuc,
yyyy'Axwlyaufvs,yfxy.hxwlukow,[148]yxwpcyKybfvc--lfyecylxoybcwlxijrywuufa'hywkd,
yyyyLxcyifuchl'hyhfrklwuoyhfv--lfybuwaylxcyrkdgkbyhlucwdyKymwdcq
yyyyEflxyauclmxcbywvbyeflxyerkvbylxcoyrkc--kvylxcyakrbyaffbywrrybchlkljlc,
yyyyDoygwucvlh,yrkhlcvkvsywv kfjhro--lfyxcwuydoyxfdc-ucljuvkvsyifflq
yyyyEoylxkh,ylxoyiwlwryhxwil,ylxkhyfvc--lxuccydkhcuwercypkmlkdhyiwrr,
yyyyLxcyhkuc,ylxcydflxcu,ywvbylxcyhfv--wxyaxo?ywvbyjvfiicvbkvsywrrq
yyyyXfaypwkvydoyiwlxcu'hyrkicywjhlcuc--lxcyPcbw'hyhljbkcbygwscyxfaypwkv,
yyyyXcy.vcayvflyaklxygufgxclkmyicwu--xkhyhfvyafjrbyiwrryjvlkdcroyhrwkvq
yyyyEjlyxwbyxcy.vfav,ylfyfvcywhyxc--hfyacw.,yhfyerkvb,y'lacucyefflrchhywrr,
yyyyVfyluccymwvyhwpcywvflxcuylucc--eoylxcyhxwugyxwlmxclydwu.cbylfyiwrrq
yyyyEjlylfydoyiwlxcu'hybacrrkvsyxwhlc--fxyUwsxj'h[149]yhfv,yrchlykvyxkhykuc,
yyyyLxoyxcwbyaklxyejuvkvsymjuhcyxcyerwhl--whylxcybuoyifuchlyluccylxcyikucq
yyyyLxccylfydoyiwlxcu'hyrfvcyuclucwl--akrrynjkm.royrcwbyofvyfvawubygwlx,
yyyyFxyxwhlc,yxkhygwubfvylfycvlucwl--fuycucyxcymjuhcylxccykvyxkhyauwlxq
yyyyOclyikuhl,ylxwlyscvlroyKydwoybkc--buwayifulxylxcyewuecbyhlccryiufdyxcvmc,
yyyyWrrwoylxoyicwuh,yvfyEuwxdkvyK--vflylxkvcyfiyEuwxdkvyerffbylxcyfiicvmcq
yyyyDoyhkuc,ywyEuwxdkvyxcudklyxc--doydflxcuyawhyfiyHjbuwyuwmcq'[150]
yyyyHfyhgw.cylxcyafjvbcbyefo,yfvydc--axkrcyljuvcbyxkhyjvucgufwmxkvsyiwmcq
yyyyWhyiufdyxkhygwrgklwlkvsyeucwhl--Kyscvlroybucaylxcydfulwrybwul,
yyyyXcyhwaydcylucderkvsyhlwvb,ywvbyerchl--lxwlyefo'hygjucyhgkuklyhccdcbylfygwulq
yyyyWhybkcbylxwlyxfroyxcudkl'hyhfv--iufdydcydoysrfuoyhccdcbylfysf,
yyyyAklxylufjercbydkvbyKyhlffb,ymwhlybfav--l'ykvcpklwercycvbrchhyafcq
yyyyLxwlyhxwilylxwlyhccdcbyxkhyrkicylfyejuv--rk.cyhcugcvlypcvfd,ylxjhybuwavyfjl,
yyyyK,ylw.kvsyjgyxkhyiwrrcvyjuv--l'yxkhyiwlxcu'hybacrrkvsylff.ydoyufjlcq
yyyyLxcucydkhcuwerc,yerkvb,ywvbyfrb--fiylxckuyhfrcyxcrgdwlcylxjhyifurfuv,
yyyyXkhygwucvlhybkbylxchcycochyecxfrb--rk.cylafyhwbyekubhyaklxygkvkfvhyhxfuvq
yyyyFiyxkdykvyifvbybkhmfjuhcylxcoyhwlc--rfvc,ylxkv.kvsyfvroyfiylxckuyhfv,
yyyyIfuyxkhyucljuvyhfyrfvs,yhfyrwlc--kdgwlkcvl,yfxyeoydcyjvbfvcq
yyyyDoyifflhlcgh'yhfjvbyxcyhccdcbylfy.vfa--wvbylxjhylxcywscbyxcudklyhwkb,
yyyy'Fx,yOwzvwbwllw,yaxoyhfyhrfa?--xwhlc,yrclylxcymffrkvsybuwjsxlyecyhxcbq
yyyyRfvs,yfvylxcyukpcu'hygrcwhwvlyeukv.--xwhlylxfjyeccvyhgfulkvsykvylxoyzfo,
yyyyLxoydflxcu'hyiwkvlkvsyhgkuklhyhkv.--kvyicwuyifuylxcc,yejlylxfj,ydoyefo,
yyyyKiywjsxlylfysukcpcylxoyscvlrcyxcwul--lxoydflxcuyfuylxoyhkucybfyaufvs,
yyyyEcwuyaklxyjh,yvfuyaxcvyvc lyacygwul--fvylxcyhrfayawoylxjhyrkvscuyrfvsq
yyyyLxcyicclyfiylxfhcylxwlymwvvflydfpc--fiylxfhcylxwlymwvvflyhccylxcycoc,
yyyyFjuyhgkuklhyrkpcyejlykvylxoyrfpc--Fxyaxcucifuc,ybcwuchl,yvfyucgro?'
yyyyyyDoylxufwlylxkm.yhafrrcvyaklxyejuhlkvsylcwuh--doygfacuyfiyhgccmxylxwl
yyyyyyyyyyhccdcbylfymxf.c,
yyyyAklxyxwvbhywefpcydoyxcwb,ydoyicwuh--eucw.kvsydoynjkpcukvsypfkmc,yKyhgf.c;
yyyy'Lxcy.hxwlukowyBwhwuwlxwyK--Fxyxcudklyhwsc,y'lkhyvflylxoyhfv!
yyyyDfhlyxfroyfvch,yjv.vfakvsro--wybccbyfiywaijrysjkrlyK'pcybfvcq
yyyyAklxyefaykvyxwvbyKylff.ydoyawo--wrfvsyHwuwoj'hygrcwhwvlyeukv.,
yyyyLxcyhwpwscyejiiwrfylfyhrwo--fuycrcgxwvlymfdcybfavylfybukv.q
yyyyWyhfjvbymwdcydjudjukvsylfydoycwu--'lawhyfiylxcyjuvylxwlyhrfaroyikrrcb,
yyyyKybccdcbyhfdcyhwpwscyakrb-ecwhlyvcwu--doycuukvsyhxwilylxoyhfvyxwby.krrcbq
yyyyWyiccercysufwvyKyxcwub,yxkhyeucwhl--awhygkcumcbyeoylxwlybkucywuufay.ccv:
yyyyWrrylucderkvsylfylxcyhgflyKyguchhcb--rfylxcucylxoyxcudklyefoyawhyhccvq
yyyyIrcaylfylxcyhfjvbydoywuufa,ydcwvl--lxcyawvbcukvsycrcgxwvlylfyhrwo,
yyyyLfawubylxcyukpcuyeukv.yklyacvl--wvbylxcucylxoyhfvyc gkukvsyrwoq
yyyyLxcyiwlwryhxwilyaxcvyifulxyKybuca--lfyxcwpcvyxkhygwulkvsyhgkuklyhfwucb,
yyyyBokvsyxcyfvroylxfjsxlyfiyofj--rfvs,yrfvs,yofjuyrfvcroyrflybcgrfucbq
yyyyLxjhyksvfuwvlroybkbyKyhrwo--ofjuymxkrbyecrfpcb,yFxyxcudklyhwsc!
yyyyLjuvylxfjyfvydc,yaxfhcyiwlcbybwo--khymfdc,ylxoywrr-mfvhjdkvsyuwscq'
yyyyXcyxcwubydoybucwbijrylwrcywlyrcvslx--xcyhlffbywrryrkicrchh,ydflkfvrchh;
yyyyLxcvybccgyxcysufwvcb,ywvbyswlxcukvsyhlucvslx--dcyxkhydcc.yhjggrkwvlybkb
yyyyyyyywbbuchhq
yyyy'.hxwlukow,y'lkhyacrrylxwlylxfjyxwhlyljuvcb--lxoybccbyfiydjubcuylfyucxcwuhc,
yyyyCrhcyfpcuywrrylxoyrwvbyxwbyejuvcb--lxcyikucyfiydoyakbc-awhlkvsymjuhcq
yyyyKiyaklxygucdcbklwlcbymukdc--lxcyjvfiicvbkvsyerffbylxfj'bhlyhgkrl,
yyyyLxcyLxjvbcucuyfvyxkhylxufvcyhjerkdc--xwbyhxw.cvywlyhjmxylucdcvbfjhysjkrlq
yyyyWswkvhlylxcywvmxfuklc'hyhwmucbyxcwb--xwbhl,y.vfakvs,ywkdcbylxoyhxwil
yyyyyyyywmmjuhcb,
yyyyKvylx'yxfroyPcbwhybccgroyucwb--lxoyh.jrrykvyhcpcvyakbcyucvlhyxwbyejuhlq
yyyyEjlyhkvmc,yjvakllkvs,ylxfjyxwhlyaufjsxl--lxwlybccbyfiybcwlx,ylxfjyrkpchl
yyyyyyyyhlkrr,
yyyyFxyhfvyfiyUwsxj,yiufdylxoylxfjsxl--bkhdkhhywrrybucwbyfiykvhlwvlykrrq
yyyyFxyrcwbydcylfylxwlybfrcijryhgfl--axcucydoygffuyefoyc gkukvsyrwo,
yyyyEcvcwlxylxcyhxwilylxoyicrryxwvbyhxfl--fiydoyerkvbywsc,ylxcyhlwii,ylxcyhlwoq
yyyyFvylxcymfrbycwulxy'lacucyoclywyzfo--lfylfjmxydoygcukhxcbymxkrbywswkv,
yyyy(HfyrfvsykiyKydwoyrkpc)ydoyefo--kvyfvcyrwhlyifvbycdeuwmcylfyhluwkvq
yyyyXkhyefboywrryecbcacbyaklxysfuc--xkhyrfm.hykvyrffhcybkhfubcuylxufav,
yyyyRclydc,yrclyxcuyejlylfjmxyfvmcydfuc--lfylxcybucwbyucwrdyfiyOwdwysfvcq'
yyyyLxcvylfylxwlyiwlwrygrwmcyKyeufjsxl--wrfvcylxwlydkhcuwercygwku;
yyyyXkhyhksxlrchhyxwvbh,ywvbyxcuhyKylwjsxl--lfylfjmxylxckuyefoylxwlyhrjdecucb
yyyyyyyylxcucq
yyyyVfuyhffvcuybkbylxcoyiccryxkdyrkc--fvylxcydfkhlyxcuewscymfrbroylxufav,
yyyyEflxyaklxywyhxukrrywvbyiccercymuo--jgfvylxcyefboymwhlylxcdybfavq
yyyyLxcydflxcuywhyhxcyrwoywvbysufwvcb--wbbuchhcbyxcuyefoyaklxynjkpcukvsylfvsjc,
yyyyWvbyrk.cywyxckicuyhwbroydfwvcb--zjhlygrjvbcucbyfiyxcuyvca-bufggcbyofjvs:
yyyy'Awhyvflylxoydflxcuyfvmc,ydoyhfv--lxwvyrkicyklhcriydfucybcwuylfylxcc?
yyyyAxoylxcyrfvsyawoyxwhlylxfjyecsjv--aklxfjlyfvcyscvlrcyafubylfydcq
yyyyFvcyrwhlycdeuwmc,ywvbylxcv,yecrfpcb--jgfvylxoyrfvcroyzfjuvcoysf!
yyyyWrwh!yaklxywvscuywulylxfjydfpcb--lxwlyvflywyafubylxfjyakrlyechlfa?'
yyyyyyLxcydkhcuwercyiwlxcuyvfa[151]--aklxyscvlrcylfjmxycwmxymfrbyrkdeyguchhcb,
yyyyWvbylfylxcybcwbyxkhyafubhyfiyafc--whylfyxkhyrkpkvsyhfv,ywbbuchhcb:
yyyy'Kylff,ydoyhfv,ywdyKyvflyxcuc?--lxoyhkucyaklxylxoyhwbydflxcuyhlwvbh;
yyyyWaw.c,ywukhc,ydoymxkrb,ybuwayvcwu--wvbymrwhgycwmxyvcm.yaklxyrfpkvsyxwvbhq
yyyyAxfyvfa,y'vcwlxylxcybwu.yaffbyeoyvksxl--wygkfjhyucwbcuyhxwrryecyxcwub?
yyyyAxfhcyxfvkcbypfkmcydoycwuybcrksxl--aklxylx'yxfroyPcbw'hyrkpkvsyafub?
yyyyLxcycpcvkvsyguwocu,ylx'ywerjlkfvybfvc--lxcyikucywbfucbyaklxyafuhxkgydccl,
yyyyAxfyvfayhxwrryhfflxcyrk.cylxcc,ydoyhfv--aklxyifvbrkvsyxwvb,ydoywscbyiccl?
yyyyWvbyaxfylxcyxcue,ylxcyaxfrchfdcyuffl--fuyakrbyiujklyiufdylxcyaffbyhxwrr
yyyyyyyyeukvs?
yyyyLfyjhylxcyerkvb,ylxcybchlkljlc--aklxyxcrgrchhyxjvscuygcukhxkvs?
yyyyLxoyerkvbyfrbydflxcu,yxcwpcv-uchksvcb--aklxkvyfjuyxcudkl-bacrrkvsyrfvc,
yyyyXfayhxwrryKylcvb,ydohcriywhyerkvb--vfaywrrydoyhlucvslxyfiyrkicykhysfvc!
yyyyFxyhlwo,ydoymxkrb,yFxygwulyvflyocl--lfyOwdw'hybacrrkvsysfyvflyvfa,
yyyyLf-dfuufayifulxyacywrryakrryhcl--lxoydflxcu,ywvbydohcri,ywvbylxfj:
yyyyIfuyeflx,ykvysukciyifuylxcc,ywvbyeflx--hfyxcrgrchh,ycucywvflxcuybwo,
yyyyIufdylxkhybwu.yafurb,yejlyrkllrcyrfwlx--hxwrryacybcgwul,ybcwlx'hycwhoyguco!
yyyyWvbyKydohcri,yeoyOwdw'hyhcwl--mfdgwvkfvyfiylxoybwu.hfdcyawo,
yyyyLxcysjcubfvylfylxoypkuljchydccl--iufdylxwlysucwlyZjbscyfiydcvyakrryguwoq
yyyyEcmwjhc,ydoyefo,ykvykvvfmcvmc--eoyakm.cbybccbylxfjyxwhlyeccvyhrwkv,
yyyyUkhc,yaxcucylxcyxcufchybacrr,yaxfylxcvmc--vc'cuyhlffgylfylxkhybwu.yafurb
yyyyyyyywswkvq
yyyyLxfhcylxwlylfycwulxyucljuvyvfydfuc--lxcyhcvhc-hjebjcb,ylxcyxcudklhyakhc,
yyyyGukchlhylxckuyhwscydwhlcuhylxwlywbfuc--lfylxckuyclcuvwryhcwlhywukhcq
yyyyLxfhcylxwlyxwpcyhljbkcbylfylxcyrwhl--lxcyPcbw'h,ylxcyPcbwvsw'hygwsc,
yyyyAxcucyhwkvlroy.kvshyfiycwulxyxwpcygwhhcb--VwxjhwywvbyOwoálkyhwsc;
yyyyLxcyhkuchyfiyxfroyiwdkrkch--lxcylujcylfyacbrfm.'hyhwmucbypfa;
yyyyWvbylxfhcylxwlymwllrc,ysfrb,yfuyukmc--fuyrwvbhyaklxyrkecuwryxwvbhyechlfa;
yyyyLxwlyfgcylx'ywhorjdylfylx'yfgguchhcb--lxwlycpcuyrfpc,ywvbyhgcw.ylxcylujlx,
yyyyJgylfylxcybacrrkvshyfiylxcyerchl--lx'yclcuvwr,yhfwuylxfj,yechlyrfpcbyofjlxq
yyyyIfuyvfvcyfiyhjmxywyxfroyuwmc--aklxkvylxcyrfachlyhcwlydwoybacrr;
yyyyEjlylxwlyakrryecyxkhyiwlwrygrwmc--eoyaxfdydoyfvroyfiihgukvsyicrrq'
yyyyyyHfysufwvkvsybccg,ylxwlyauclmxcbygwku--lxcyxcudklywvbyxkhyakic,ychhwocb
yyyyLxcydcclywerjlkfvylfygucgwuc--lxckuyxwvbhylxckuyrwhlyiwkvlyciifulydwbcq
yyyyBkpkvc,yaklxysrfukfjhyefboyeuksxl--kvyhgrcvbkbymwuyfiyxcwpcvycrwlc,
yyyyEcifucylxcdyhlffbylxckuyhfvykvyrksxl--wvbylxjhymfvhfrcbylxckuyxcrgrchh
yyyyyyyyhlwlc:
yyyy'Dccbyfiydoybjlcfjhyikrkwrymwuc--K'pcyucwmxcbylxcyakhxcbyifuyucwrdhyfi
yyyyyyyyzfo;[152]
yyyyWvbyoc,ykvylxfhcysrwbyucwrdh,ygucgwuc--lfydcclyijrryhffvyofjuybcwu-rfpcb
yyyyyyyyefoq
yyyyDoygwucvlh,yaccgyvfydfucyifuydc--ofvyawuukfuydfvwumxyhrcaydcyvfl,
yyyyDoybcwlxyawhylxjhyfubwkvcbylfyec;--gucbchlkvcbyawhylxcyhxwilyxcyhxflq"
yyyyLxjh,ywhyxcyhgf.c,ylxcywvmxfuklc'hyhfv--hfwucbyjgylxcysrfakvsyxcwpcvywiwu,
yyyyKvywkuyxkhyxcwpcvroyefboyhxfvc--axkrcyhlffbyxcykvyxkhysfuscfjhymwuq
yyyyEjlylxco,yfiylxwlyrfhlyefoyhfybcwu--lxcyrwhlywerjlkfvydcclroydwbc,
yyyyLxjhyhgf.cylfydcylxwlyxfroyhccu--aklxyifrbcbyxwvbhywefpcyxkhyxcwbq
yyyy'Wrecklyeoylxoyjv.vfakvsybwul--doyerwdcrchhyefoyjvlkdcroyicrr,
yyyyWymjuhcyKyrwoyjgfvylxoyxcwul--axfhcyicwuijrygwkvyKy.vfaylffyacrrq
yyyyWhyhfuufakvsyifuydoyhfvyKyefa--wvbyokcrbyjgydoyjvakrrkvsyeucwlx,
yyyyHf,yhfuufakvsyifuylxoyhfvyhxwrlylxfj--wlyrkic'hyrwhlymrfhcyucgfhcykvybcwlxq'
yyyyLxwlymjuhc,ybucwbyhfjvbkvsykvydkvcycwu--lfydkvcyfavymkloyifulxyKyhcl,
yyyyVfuyrfvsyhjupkpcbylxwlyxcudklyhccu--lfydfjuvyxkhymxkrbykvyrfvcyucsuclq
yyyyLxkhybwoylxwlyEuwxdkvymjuhcyijrikrrcb--xwlxyiwrrcvyfvydoybcpflcbyxcwb,
yyyyKvywvsjkhxyifuywvoygwulcbymxkrb--xwpcywrrydoyhkv.kvsyhgkuklhyircbq
yyyyVfydfucydoybwu.cvcbycochymwvyhcc--doymrfjbcbydcdfuoykhyf'cumwhl,
yyyyBwu.yOwdw'hyxcuwrbhyhjddfvydc--lfyxkhybccg,ybucwuo,yucwrdylfyxwhlcq
yyyyDkvcycocyvfydfucydoyUwdwyhcch--wvbysukciyf'cuejuvh,ydoyhgkuklhyhkv.,
yyyyWhylxcyhafrrcvyhlucwdyhaccghybfavylxcylucch--lxwlysufayjgfvylxcymujderkvs
yyyyyyyyeukv.q
yyyyFx,yicrlyKyUwdw'hylfjmx,yfuyhgw.c--fvcyafubyxkhyxfdc-ucljuvkvsypfkmc,
yyyyWswkvylfyrkicyhxfjrbyKywaw.c--whynjwiikvsyvcmlwuybuwjsxlhyuczfkmc,
yyyyEjlyaxwlyhfyhwbymfjrbyc'cuyxwpcyeccv--mcrchlkwrygwulvcuyfiydoyxcwul,
yyyyLxwv,yUwdw'hyecwjlcfjhyiwmcyjvhccv,--iufdyrkicyjvlkdcroylfybcgwulq
yyyyXkhyc krcykvylxcyifuchlyf'cu--xkdyxfdcyucljuvcbylfyFjbchyxksxylfav,
yyyyFxyxwggoylxfhc,ylxwlyhccyfvmcydfuc--rk.cyKvbuwyiufdylxcyh.oymfdcybfavq
yyyyVfydfulwrydcv,yejlysfbhyKybccd--dffvrk.c,yecifucyaxfhcyafvbcukvsyhksxl,
yyyyDoyUwdw'hysrfukfjhyiwmcyhxwrryecwd--iufdylxcybwu.yifuchlyejuhlkvsyeuksxlq
yyyyXwggoylxwlyswtcyfvyUwdw'hyiwmc--aklxyecwjlcfjhylcclxywvbyhdkrcyfiyrfpc,
yyyyRk.cylxcyerjcyrfljhykvyklhysuwmc--wvbyrk.cylxcyhlwuuoy.kvsywefpcq
yyyyRk.cylfylxcyijrrywjljdvwrydffv--wvbyrk.cylxcyrfljhykvyklhyerffd,
yyyyLxwlyofjlxyaxfyhcchyucljuvkvsyhffv--xfayerchlyhxwrryecylxwlydfulwr'hybffdq
yyyyBacrrkvsyfvylxwlyhacclydcdfuo--fvyxkhyrwhlyecbylxcydfvwumxyrwo,
yyyyWvbyhrfaro,yhfilro,yhccdcbylfybkc--whyiwbchylxcydffvywlybwavywawoq
yyyy"Wx,yUwdw!ywx,ydoyhfv!"ylxjhyhwkb--fuyhmwumcroyhwkb,ylxcy.kvsyfiydcv,
yyyyXkhyscvlrcyxwgrchhyhgkuklyircb--kvyhfuufayifuyxkhyUwdwylxcv,
yyyyLxcyhxcgxcubyfiyxkhygcfgrcyfrb--wlydkbvksxlyfvyxkhyecbyfiybcwlx,
yyyyLxcylwrcyfiyxkhyhfv'hyc krcylfrb--wvbyeucwlxcbywawoyxkhybokvsyeucwlxq




C LUWMLHyIUFDyLXCyDWXWEXWUWLWq

LXCyEUWXDKV'HyRWDCVLq


yyyyLxcyxfhlkrkloyfiylxcy.kvbucbyuwmchyfiyGwvbjywvby.jujyifudh
yyyyfvcyfiylxcysucwlymkumrchyfiyKvbkwvyiwercqyKlyikrrhysucwlygwul
yyyyfiylxcykddcvhcygfcd,ylxcyDwxwexwuwlwqyWlylxkhygcukfbylxcyikpc
yyyyhfvhyfiyGwvbjywvbylxckuydflxcuy.jvlkyxwpcyeccvybukpcvykvlf
yyyylxcyakrbcuvchhyiufdylxcymfjulyfiylxckuyjvmrcyBuklwuwhxluwywl
yyyyVâswgjuqyLxcyeuflxcuh,ybjukvsylxckuyuchkbcvmcykvylxcyifuchl,
yyyyxwpcywvycvmfjvlcuyaklxywylcuukercyskwvl,yXkbkdew,ylxc
yyyyguflflogcyfiylxcyMomrfghyfiyXfdcu,ywvbyfiylxcyaxfrcyuwmcyfi
yyyyskwvlhyfiyvfulxcuvyfukskv,yaxf,ywilcuywdjhkvsyfjuywvmchlfuh,
yyyymxkrbucvyfiyrwuscuysufalx,ybchmcvbcbylfyfjuyvjuhcukch,yiufd
yyyyaxcvmcylxcoywucyvfayacrr-vksxyc grfbcbqyWilcuylxkhywbpcvljuc
yyyylxcyeuflxcuhylw.cyjgylxckuyuchkbcvmcykvylxcymkloyfiyC.wmxwuw,
yyyyaxcucylxcoywucyxfhgklweroyucmckpcbykvylxcyxfjhcyfiywyEuwxdkvq
yyyyLxcyvcksxefjuxffbyfiylxkhymkloykhyxwjvlcbyeoywvflxcuylcuukerc
yyyyskwvl,yEw.w,yaxfhcymwvvkewrywggclklcyxwhyeccvysrjllcbyeoyw
yyyyhjmmchhkfvyfiydcwvcuypkmlkdhqyKlykhyvfaymfdcylfylxcyEuwxdkv'h
yyyyljuvylfyijuvkhxylxcyiwlwryewvnjcl;ylxcoyfpcuxcwuylxc
yyyyifrrfakvsymfdgrwkvlyfiylxckuyxfhl,yaxfhcyiwdkro,ymfvhkhlkvs
yyyyfiyxkdhcri,yxkhyakic,ywysufavyjgybwjsxlcu,ywvbywyhfvywyrkllrc
yyyymxkrb,ydjhlyhjuucvbcuyfvcylfyecmfdcylxcyxfuukercyucgwhlyfi
yyyylxcydfvhlcuqyKvyljuv,ylxcyiwlxcu,ylxcydflxcu,ykvyaxwlydwoyec
yyyyiwkuroymwrrcbylxuccyhkvsjrwuroygwlxclkmyKvbkwvycrcskch,
yyyycvifumcycwmxylxckuymrwkdylfylxcygukpkrcscyfiyhjiicukvsyifu
yyyylxcyuchlq




LXCyEUWXDKV'HyRWDCVLq


yyyyWrwhyifuyrkic,yhfypwkv,yhfyacwuo--kvylxkhymxwvskvsyafurbyecrfa,
yyyyCpcu-lccdkvsyufflyfiyhfuufa--hlkrrybcgcvbcvl,yijrryfiyafc!
yyyyHlkrrylfyrkicymrkvshyhlufvsywiirkmlkfv--rkicylxwl'hyfvcyrfvsyhjiicukvsywrr,
yyyyAxfhfyrkpchydjhlyecwuyxkhyhfuufa--hffvyfuyrwlcylxwlydjhlyeciwrrq

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

yyyyFxylfyikvbywygrwmcyfiyucijsc--kvylxkhybkucyc lucdklo,
yyyyIfuydoyakic,ydoyhfv,ydoybwjsxlcu--wvbydohcriyaxwlyxfgcydwoyec?
yyyyFilyK'pcyhwkbylfylxcc,ydoybcwuchl--Gukchlchh,ylxwlylxfjy.vfachlyacrr,
yyyyEjlydoyafubylxfjyvcpcuyxccbcbhl--rclyjhysfyaxcucygcwmcydwoybacrrq
yyyy"XcucyKyxwbydoyekulx,ydoyvjuljuc--hlkrrydoyhkucykhyrkpkvsyxcuc;
yyyyFxyjvakhc!"y'lawhylxjhylxfjywvhacucbhl--lfydoyfil-ucgcwlcbyguwocuq
yyyyLxkvcyfrbyiwlxcuyacvlylfyxcwpcv--hrcglylxoydflxcuyeoyxkhyhkbc,
yyyyLxcvylxoyvcwuywvbybcwuyucrwlkfvh--axoybcrksxl'hlylxfjyxcucyl'ywekbc?
yyyyIfvbroyrfpkvsyhlkrrylxoy.kvbucb--lxkvcyfrbyxfdcylxfjyafjrb'hlyvflyrcwpc,
yyyyFiylxoy.kvbucbybcwlxybcgukpcbylxcc--kvylxoysukcihyKymfjrbyejlysukcpcq
yyyyVfaylfydcykhybcwlxywggufwmxkvs--vcpcuypkmlkdyakrryKyskpc,
yyyyIufdydkvcyxfjhc,yrk.cyhfdcyewhcymuwpcv--wvbydohcriymfvhcvlylfyrkpcq
yyyyLxccyaklxyuksxlcfjhyhfjr,ylxcyscvlrc--cpcuyrk.cywydflxcuybccdcb,
yyyyWyhacclyiukcvbylxcysfbhyxwpcyskpcvydc--wocydoymxfkmchlyacwrlxychlccd'bq
yyyyIufdylxoygwucvlhylxcc,ymfvhcvlkvs--dkhluchhyfiydoyxfjhcyKylff.,
yyyyLxccyKymxfhc,ywvbylxccyKyxfvfjucb--whycvzfkvhylxcyxfroyeff.q
yyyyLxfjylxcyxksx-efuv,ylxfjylxcypkuljfjh!--doybcwuymxkrbucv'hydflxcuylxfj,
yyyyFvroylfygufrfvsydoyeckvs--lxccylxcysffb,ylxcyerwdcrchh,yvfa,
yyyyMwvylfylxoybcwlxyhjuucvbcu--dkvcyfavylujc,ydoyiwklxijryakic?
yyyyyyOclydoyhfvymwvyKywewvbfv--kvyxkhycwuroyerffdyfiyrkic,
yyyyFiicuyxkdykvyxkhyhacclymxkrbxffb--aklxyvfybfavyxkhymxcc.ylfyhxwbc?
yyyyyyXcu,yaxfdyEuwxdw,ylxcywrr-efjvlcfjh--ifuywyrfpcroyeukbcyxwlxydwbc,
yyyyDflxcuyfiywyuwmcyfiyxcufch--wyxcwpcv-akvvkvsyuwmcydwoydw.c;[153]
yyyyFiydohcriyecsfl,ylxcypkuskv--mfjrbyKycpcuyxcuyifuhw.c?
yyyyLfawubhywyhfvylxcyxcwulhyfiyiwlxcuh--hfdcyxwpcylxfjsxl,ywucybccgchlydfpcb,
yyyyFlxcuhybccdylxcybwjsxlcuybcwucu--eflxywrk.cyK'pcycpcuyrfpcb:
yyyyHxcylxwlyhfvh,ylxwlyxcwpcvyxwlxykvyxcu--hfvhyaxfhcyfiicukvshyxcwpcvydwoyakv,
yyyyMwvyKyucvbcuyjgydoybwjsxlcu--erwdcrchh,yjvbcikrcbyeoyhkv?
yyyyKiydohcriyKyfiicu,yhfuufa--kvylxcyvc lyafurbydoyrflydjhlyec,
yyyyXwubroylxcvymfjrbyrkpcydoymxkrbucv--wvbydoyakicyecucilyfiydcq
yyyyFvcyfiylxchcyhfybcwuylfyfiicu--lfylxcyakhc,yacucyhkv,yacucyhxwdc,
yyyyOclyaklxfjlydcylxcoydjhlygcukhx--xfaylfy'hmwgcylxcyhkv,ylxcyerwdc!
yyyyAfc!yFxyafc!yaxcucyikvbyKyucijsc--ifuydohcri,yifuydkvc,yfxyaxcuc!
yyyyEcllcuy'lacucylfybkcylfsclxcu--ifuylfyrkpcyKymwvvflyecwuq

yyyy_Lxc_yEUWXDKV'HyAKICy_hgcw.h_q

yyyyWhyfiyrfaroymwhlc,ydoyxjhewvb--okcrbyvflylxjhylxoyhfjrylfyafc,
yyyyLxkhykhyvflywylkdcyifuyawkrkvs--axfylxcyPcbwhy.vfahydjhly.vfa:
yyyyIwlcykvcpklwercyfubcuh--wrrydjhlyokcrbylfybcwlxykvyljuv,
yyyyXcvmcylxcybffd,ylx'ykuucpfmwerc--klyechccdhyvflylxccylfydfjuvq
yyyyDwvyxwlxyakic,ywvbyhfv,ywvbybwjsxlcu--ifuylxcyzfoyfiyxkhyfavyxcwulq
yyyyAxcucifucyakhcroymxcm.ylxoyhfuufa--klykhyKydjhlyxcvmcybcgwulq
yyyyLkhylxcyakic'hydfhlyxfroybjlo--rwayfvycwulxyaklxfjlyucgcwr,
yyyyLxwlyxcuyrkicyhxcyfiicuyiuccro--axcvybcdwvbhyxcuyxjhewvb'hyacwrq
yyyyWvbyc'cvyvfa,ywybccbyhfyvferc--xwlxyklhydccbyfiygukbcywvbyerkhh,
yyyyKvylxcyvc lyafurbyrkicyclcuvwr--wvbyjvcvbkvsyiwdcykvylxkhq
yyyy'Lkhywyxksx,yoclymculwkvybjlo--lxwlydoyrkicyKylxjhyuchksv,
yyyy'Lkhylxoyuksxl,ywhylxoywbpwvlwsc--eflxylxcyakrrkvsybccbycvzfkv--
yyyyWrryifuyaxkmxywyakicykhyacbbcb--rfvsycucvfaylxufjsxydcylxfj'hlyafv,
yyyyErffdkvsyhfvywvbyscvlrcybwjsxlcu--lxwlydoybcelykhygwkbywvbybfvcq
yyyyLxfjydwo'hlyacrryhjggfulyfjuymxkrbucv--scvlroysjwub,yaxcvyKywdysfvc,
yyyyKyhxwrryxwpcyvfygfacuylfysjwubylxcd--vfuyhjggfulylxcd,yrcilywrfvcq
yyyyFx,ybchgfkrcbyfiylxoywhhkhlwvmc--rfubyfiydc,ywvbywrryKyxwpc,
yyyyXfaylxchcyrkllrcyfvchyiufdyujkv--xfaydoyxwgrchhyhcriylfyhwpc:
yyyyAkbfa'b,yucilyfiylxcc,ywvbyxcrgrchh--aklxylafymxkrbucvykvylxckuyofjlx,
yyyyXfaydwkvlwkvydoyhfv,ywvbybwjsxlcu--kvylxcygwlxyfiyuksxlywvbylujlxq
yyyyIufdylxcyrjhlijr,yiufdylxcyxwjsxlo--xfayhxwrryKyfjuymxkrbyguflcml,
yyyyAxcvylxcoyhcc.ylxoyerwdcrchhybwjsxlcu--eoywyiwlxcu'hywacyjvmxcm.cbq
yyyyWhylxcyekubhykvyvjdecuhyhawudkvs--swlxcuyf'cuylxcycwulx-hlucavymfuv,
yyyyLxjhylxcydcvyufjvbyhfdcyhwbyakbfa--fiyxcuyvfercyrfubyifurfuvq
yyyyLxjhyeoywrrylxcyujbcywvbyucm.rchh--aklxygufiwvcybchkuchygjuhjcb,[154]
yyyyXfayhxwrryKylxcygwlxyhlkrryifrrfa--rfpcbywvbyxfvfjucbyeoylxcysffbq
yyyyLxkhylxoybcwu,ylxoyfvroybwjsxlcu--lxkhygjucydwkbcvykvvfmcvl,
yyyyXfaylfylcwmxylxcyawoyfiysffbvchh--axcucyxcuyhkuc,yxcuyiwlxcuhyacvlq
yyyyXfaymwvyKykvhlkrylxcypkuljch--kvylxcyefhfdyfiyfjuymxkrb,
yyyyXcrgrchhywvbyechclyfvywrryhkbch--whylxfjyafjrb'hlykvybjloyh.krrcbq
yyyyUfjvbylxoyjvguflcmlcbybwjsxlcu--Hjbuwhyrk.c[155]ylfyxfroyrfuc,
yyyyHmfuvkvsydcykvylxckuyakrbygwhhkfv--akrryjvafulxoyhjklfuhygfjuq
yyyyWvbykiyKyucijhcylfyskpcyxcu--dkvbijryfiylxoypkuljfjhymfjuhc,
yyyyWhylxcyhlfu.hylxcyukmcyfiyfiicukvs[156]--lxcoyakrryecwuyxcuyfiiyeoyifumcq
yyyyHxfjrbyKyhccydoyhfvybcscvcuwlc--rk.cyxkhyvfercyhkucyvfydfuc,
yyyyKvylxcygfacuyfiylxcyjvafulxo--lxcyhacclybwjsxlcuylxwlyKyefuc;
yyyyWvbydohcri,ylxcyafurb'hyhmfuv,yawvbcukvs--hfywhyhmwumcydohcriylfy.vfa,
yyyyFiygufjbydcvylxcyhmfii,ylxcyfjlmwhl--Kyhxfjrbybkcyfiyhxwdcywvbyafcq
yyyyWvbyecucilyfiydc,ydoymxkrbucv--wvbyaklxfjlylxoywkbylfymxcukhx,
yyyyWhylxcyikhxyaxcvyawlcuyiwkrhylxcd--eflxyafjrbydkhcuweroygcukhxq
yyyyLxjhyfiywrrylxcylxuccykhyujkv--lxcykvcpklwercyrfl,
yyyyBchfrwlcyfiylxcc,ylxckuysjwubkwv--axcucifuc,yFx,yifuhw.cyjhyvfl!
yyyyyyLxcybwu.yawoyecifucyxcuyxjhewvb--'lkhywyakic'hyikuhlyerkhhylfysf,
yyyy'Lkhywyakic'hylxwlyxwlxyefuvcymxkrbucv--lxkhylxcyakhc,ylxcyxfroy.vfaq
yyyyIfuylxccyifuhw.cvyecydoybwjsxlcu--rclydoyhfvyifuhw.cvyec,
yyyyKyifuylxccyifuhff.ydoy.kvbucb--wvbyifuhw.cydoyrkicyifuylxccq
yyyyDfucylxwvyfiicukvsy'lkh,ylxwvygcvwvmc--rkecuwryskilyfuyhwmukikmc,
yyyyAxcvywyakic,ylxjhymrcwuroyhjddfvcb--ifuyxcuyxjhewvb'hyacriwucybkchq
yyyyLxwlyaxkmxyvfaylfybfyKyxwhlcv--wrrylxcyxksxchlybjloyiccr,
yyyyIfuylxoyerkhh,yifuylxoyacrr-bfkvs--lxkvcywvbywrrylxoyuwmc'hyacwrq
yyyyDcv,ylxcoyhwo,yejlyguwoyifuymxkrbucv--ukmxch,yfuywyscvcufjhyiukcvb,
yyyyLfywhhkhlylxcdykvydkhifuljvc--wvbywyakicyifuylxcyhwdcycvbq
yyyyLxcyaxfrcyuwmcy(lxcyakhcybcmrwucykl)--lxfjylxcykvmucwhcuyfiylxoyuwmc,
yyyyLxwvylxcyhkvsrcyhcriyrchhygucmkfjh--cpcuyxfrbhywyhcmfvbygrwmcq
yyyyRclydcylxcvybkhmxwuscylxcybjlo--wvbyguchcupcylxohcriyeoydc,
yyyySkpcydcylxkvcywhhcvl,ywrr-xfvfjucb--wvbydoymxkrbucv'hysjwubkwvyecq
yyyyAfdcvydjhlyecyhgwucbyiufdyhrwjsxlcu--lxkhylxcyrcwuv'bykvybjloyhwo,
yyyyCpcvylxcyskwvly.vfahylxwlybjlo--dcyxcyakrryvflybwucylfyhrwoq
yyyyFiylxcydwvylxcybcwlxykhymculwkv--fiylxcyafdwvyoclykvybfjel,
yyyyAxcucifuc,yvferchl,yfvylxcykvhlwvl--whylxcypkmlkdyhcvbydcyfjlq
yyyyKyxwpcyrkpcbyaklxydwvoyerchhkvsh--Kyxwpcyacrryijrikrrcbydoygwul,
yyyyKyxwpcyskpcvylxccyecwjlcfjhyfiihgukvs--bcwlxyxwlxyvfjsxlyl'ywggwrydkvc
yyyyyyyyxcwulq
yyyyK'pcyefuvcymxkrbucv,yKywdywscb--kvydoyhfjryK'pcywrryucpfrpcb,
yyyyWvbyaklxyhgkuklyhlufvsylfyhcupcylxcc--Kywdyhlcwbiwhlywvbyuchfrpcbq
yyyyFiicukvsydc,ywrr-xfvfjucbyxjhewvb--lxfjywvflxcuyakicyakrlyikvb,
yyyyWvbylfyxcuyakrlybfylxoybjlo--scvlrcywhylfydc,ywvby.kvbq
yyyyDwvoyakpchykiyxcychgfjhch--dwvykvmjuhyvfuyhkvyvfuyerwdc,
yyyyIfuywyakicylfyacbywvflxcu--'lkhykvc gkwercyhxwdcq
yyyyLxkhyacrryacksxcbyaklxkvylxoyhgkukl--wvbylxcyhkvylxohcriylfybkc,
yyyyHwpcylxohcri,ylxoyuwmc,ylxoymxkrbucv--ecylxcyhkvsrcypkmlkdyKq

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

yyyyXcwukvsylxjhyxkhyakic,ylxcyxjhewvb--ifvbroymrwhg'byxcuylfyxkhyeucwhl,
yyyyWvbylxckuylcwuhylxcoygfjucbylfsclxcu--eoylxckuydjljwrysukciyfgguchhcbq




LXKUByHFVSq


yyyyFiylxchcylafylxcylufjercbyrwvsjwsc--kvylxcymxwdecuywhyhxcyxcwub,
yyyyRfhlyxcuhcriykvysukciylxcybwjsxlcu--lxjhylff.yjgylxcybfrcijryafubq

yyyy_Lxc_yBWJSXLCUy_hgw.c_q

yyyyAxoylfyhfuufaylxjhywewvbfvcb?--accgyvflylxjh,ywhywrryifurfuv,
yyyyXcwuyocyvfaydoyhgccmx,ydoygwucvlh--wvbyofjuyhfuufahydwoyecyefuvcq
yyyyDcyaklxyuksxlyocydwoywewvbfv--vfvcylxwlyuksxlykvybfjelyakrrymwrr,
yyyyOkcrbyjgyxcuylxwlyechlykhyokcrbcb--Kywrfvcydwoyhwpcyofjywrrq
yyyyAxcucifucyakhxchydwvyifuymxkrbucv?--lxcoykvyvccbydkvcyxcrgyakrryec:
yyyyRf,ylxcylkdcykhymfdc,ydoygwucvlh--kvyofjuyvccbyikvbyxcrgykvydcq
yyyyCpcuyxcucylxcyhfvyeoyfiicukvs--fuyxcucwilcuybflxywlfvc,
yyyyCklxcuyawoykhyxcylx'ywlfvcu--xcvmcylxcyakhcyxwpcyvwdcbyxkdyhfvq
yyyyyyBwjsxlcuhylff,ylxcysucwlyifuciwlxcuh--fiywyvfercyuwmcybchkuc,
yyyyWvbyKyvfayhxwrrygufpcylxckuyakhbfd--hwpkvsylxjhyiufdybcwlxydoyhkucq
yyyyRf,ydoyeuflxcuyejlywvykviwvl!--lfylxcyflxcuyafurbysfchlylxfj,
yyyyKvywyrkllrcylkdcyacygcukhx--axfydwoybwucylfynjchlkfvyxfa?
yyyyEjlykiyikuhlybcgwulylfyxcwpcv--xcylxwlywilcuydcyawhyefuv,
yyyyMcwhcyfjuyuwmc'hyhwmucbyfiicukvsh--fjuyfiicvbcbyhkuchyafjrbydfjuvq
yyyyAklxfjlyiwlxcu,yaklxfjlydflxcu--fiydoyeuflxcuylffyecucil,
yyyyKyhxwrrybkc,yjvjhcbylfyhfuufa--oclylfybccgchlyhfuufayrcilq
yyyyEjlylxohcri,ydoyhkuc!ydoydflxcu--wvbydoyscvlrcyeuflxcuyhwpc,
yyyyWvbylxckuydccl,yjviwkrkvsyfiicukvsh--hxwrryfjuyiwlxcuh'yhgkuklhyxwpcq
yyyyWyhcmfvbyhcriylxcyhfv,ywyiukcvbylxcyakic--lxcybwjsxlcu'hyejlywysukci,
yyyyIufdylxoysukciylxoybwjsxlcuyfiicukvs--lxfjyfiyuksxlyakrlyikvbyucrkciq
yyyyBchfrwlcywvbyjvguflcmlcb--cpcuyawvbcukvsyxcucywvbylxcuc,
yyyyHxwrryKynjkm.royec,ydoyiwlxcu!--ucilyfiylxoygwlcuvwrymwuc!
yyyyEjlyaculylxfjylxufjsxydc,ydoyiwlxcu--wvbylxoyuwmcyiufdygcukryiuccb,
yyyyVfercyiujklyhxfjrbyKyxwpcyefuvcylxcc--xwpkvsybfvcylxkhyhkvsrcybccbq
yyyyEjlykiylxfjyiufdyxcvmcybcgwulkvs-rcwp'hlydc,yvferchl,ylfydoyiwlc,
yyyyBfavyKyhkv.ylfyekllcuchlydkhcuo--hwpc,yFxyhwpcydcyiufdylxwlyhlwlc!
yyyyIfuydkvcyfavyhw.c,ywvbyifuypkuljc'h--ifuyfjuyvfercyuwmc'hyhw.c,
yyyyOkcrbyjgyxcuyaxfyechlykhyokcrbcb--dcylxkvcyfavyrkic'hyuwvhfdydw.cq
yyyyKvhlwvlroylxkhyhlcg,ylxcyfvro--lxcykvcpklwercylw.cq
yyyyXwlxylxcyafurbywyiwlcydfucyauclmxcb--lxwvyaxcvylxfjylfyxcwpcvywulyircb,
yyyyRk.cywybfsylfyawvbcuyecsskvs--wvbyhjehkhlyfvyflxcuh'yeucwbq
yyyyEjlydoyiwlxcu,ylxjhyguchcupkvs--lxjhyguchcupkvsywrrylxwl'hylxkvc,
yyyyKyhxwrrylxcvyecmfdcykddfulwr--wvbygwulw.cyfiyerkhhybkpkvc,
yyyyWvbylxcysfbh,ywvbyfjuyifuciwlxcuh--wrryakrryxwkrylxcygujbcvlymxfkmc,
yyyyHlkrryakrryxwpcylxcyawlcuyfiicukvsh--lxwlylxckuyxfroyhgkuklhyuczfkmcq

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

yyyyWhylxcoyxcwubyxcuyrwdcvlwlkfv--kvylxckuylufjercbywvsjkhxybccg,
yyyyAcglylxcyiwlxcu,yacglylxcydflxcu--'swvylxcybwjsxlcuylffylfyaccgq
yyyyLxcvylxcyrkllrcyhfvyecxcrbylxcd--wvbylxckuybfrcijrydfwvyxcyxcwub;
yyyyWvbyaklxyeflxyxkhycochyakbcyfgcv--rkhgcbyxcylxjhyxkhyeuf.cvyafubq
yyyy"Accgyvflyiwlxcu,yaccgyvflydflxcu--Fxydoyhkhlcu,yaccgyvflyhf!"
yyyyIkuhlylfyfvc,ywvbylxcvylfylx'yflxcu--hdkrkvsyacvlyxcylfywvbyiufq
yyyyLxcvywyerwbcyfiyhgcwu-suwhhyrkilkvs--lxjhykvyefrbcuysrccyxcyhwkb,
yyyy"Aklxylxkhyhgcwu-suwhhyakrryKy.krryxkd--lxkhydwv-cwlkvsyskwvlybcwbq"
yyyyLxfjsxyf'cugfacucbyeoyekllcuchlyhfuufa--whylxcoyxcwubylxckuyguwllrkvsyefo,
yyyyHlfrcykvlfylxcygwucvlh'yefhfdh--djlcywvbykvc guchhkpcyzfoq




LXCyBCRJSCq


yyyyLxcyifrrfakvsyc luwmlyiufdylxcyDwxáexáuwlwyawhygjerkhxcbyeo
yyyyEfgg,yaklxywyScudwvyluwvhrwlkfv,y(lxcygufdkhcbyRwlkvypcuhkfv
yyyyxwhyvflyoclyucwmxcbylxkhymfjvluo,)yaklxyifjuyflxcuyc luwmlh
yyyyiufdylxcyhwdcygfcdqyKlykhykvhculcbyxcucyvflyfvywmmfjvlyfiyklh
yyyygfclkmwrydcukl,yejlyfvywmmfjvlyfiylxcykvlcuchlyfiylxc
yyyyhjezcmlqyKlykhylxcyscvjkvc,ywvbygufeweroylxcycwurkchl,
yyyypcuhkfvyfiylxcyKvbkwvyluwbklkfvyfiylxcyIrffbqyLxcywjlxfuyxwh
yyyydwbcylxcyifrrfakvsyfehcupwlkfvhyfvylxkhyhjezcmlykvylxc
yyyyNjwulcuroyUcpkca,yaxkmxyxcypcvljuchyxcucylfyluwvhmukecq

yyyyVflxkvsyxwhylxufavyhfydjmxybkhmucbklyfvyfukcvlwryhljbkch,
yyyygwulkmjrwuroyfvylxcypwrjwercyWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ywhylxcyik cb
yyyybclcudkvwlkfvylfyikvbylxcyaxfrcyfiylxcyDfhwkmyxkhlfuoykvylxc
yyyyucdflcuyucskfvhyfiylxcyCwhlqyKlyawhyvflylfyecyc gcmlcbylxwl,
yyyyaxcvylxcyvcayafurbyfiyfukcvlwryrklcuwljucyawhyhjbbcvro
yyyybkhmrfhcb,ylxcyikuhlywllcdglhylfyc grfucyafjrbyecywrawoh
yyyysjkbcbyeoymffrywvbybkhgwhhkfvwlcymuklkmkhdqyCpcvyHkuyAqyZfvch
yyyyawhyrcbywawo,ywlylkdch,yeoylxcywubfjuyfiyxkhykdwskvwlkfv;ywvb
yyyylxcysfuscfjhygwrwmchyfiylxcyDwxwewbkwvybovwhlo,yaxkmxyacuc
yyyyejkrlyfvylxcywjlxfukloyfiylxcyBchwlkuywvbylxcyBwekhlwv,ywvb
yyyylxufavyjgawubykvlfywvywscywvlcukfuycpcvylfylxcycwurkchl
yyyyKvbkwvymkpkrkhwlkfv,yxwpcydcrlcbywawo,ywvby'rcilyvflywyaucm.
yyyyecxkvb,'yecifucylxcymffrcuywvbydfucygufifjvbykvpchlkswlkfvh
yyyyfiyDuqyCuh.kvc[157]qyHkuyAqyZfvchyawhyhjmmccbcbyeoyAkrifub,yw
yyyydwvyfiydfhlyc mjuhkpcykdwskvwlkfv,yeucbykvylxcyhmxffryfi
yyyyEuowvl,yaxf,ycpcvykiyxcyxwbyxkdhcriyeccvydfucybccgroypcuhcb
yyyykvylxcywvmkcvlyrwvsjwsc,yafjrbyxwpcyeccvywvyjvhwicysjkbcqyEjl
yyyyAkrifub,yklykhyacrry.vfav,yjvifuljvwlcroyecluwocbylfylxc
yyyymuwiloywvbydcumcvwuoygjvbklhyaxfdyxcycdgrfocb,ylxcyfezcmlh
yyyyaxkmxyxcyxfgcbylfyikvb;ywvbylxchcyjvhmujgjrfjhykvlcuguclcuh,
yyyyjvakrrkvsylfybkhwggfkvlylxckuycdgrfocu,yxwbyrkllrcybkiikmjrlo
yyyykvybkhmfpcukvs,yfuyifuskvs,yfuykvlcugfrwlkvs,yaxwlcpcuydksxl
yyyyhjklyxkhygjugfhcqyLxcyxfvchlymwvbfjuyaklxyaxkmxyAkrifub,yw
yyyydwvyfiylxcyhlukmlchlykvlcsuklo,ydwbcylxcyfgcvywvbyxjdkrkwlkvs
yyyymfvichhkfvyfiylxcybcmcglkfvhyaxkmxyxwbyeccvyguwmlkhcbyjgfv
yyyyxkd,yfjsxlyifuycpcuylfyguchcupcyxkhydcdfuoyiufdybkhuchgcmlq
yyyyLxcyikmlkfvhylfyaxkmxyxcyxwbyskpcvymjuucvmo,yfvroyuclwkvcb,
yyyywvbyhlkrryacywucywhxwdcbylfyhwoyuclwkv,ylxckuysufjvbykv
yyyyxkhlfukchyfiylxcyEkercywvbyafu.hyfiywymculwkvyhmxffryfi
yyyylxcfrfso,yiufdyaxkmxyvfymuklkmkhdymwvyc fumkhcywvycuufuyfvmc
yyyychlwerkhxcb:yhlkrr,yxfacpcu,yaklxyhcvhkercydcv,ywy.kvbyfi
yyyyhjhgkmkfvyawhylxufavyfpcuylxcyhljboyklhcri;ywvbylxcymffrywvb
yyyyhwswmkfjhyuchcwumxchyfiydcv,ygufeweroyecllcuywmnjwkvlcbyaklx
yyyylxckuyfavyrwvsjwscylxwvyhfdcyfiylxcyEuwxdkvhylxcdhcrpch,yacuc
yyyykdgrkmwlcbykvylxcyiwlcyfiylxcyiwvlwhlkmywvb,ylxfjsx
yyyygufifjvbroyrcwuvcb,ycpcuykvzjbkmkfjhyucpcukchyfiyAkrifubq

yyyyVfa,yxfacpcu,ylxwlyacydwoybcgcvbyfvylxcyscvjkvcvchhyfiyfju
yyyybfmjdcvlh,yklykhymjukfjhylfyc wdkvcylxcyKvbkwvypcuhkfvyfu
yyyypcuhkfvhyfiylxcyjvkpcuhwryluwbklkfvyfiylxcyBcrjsc;yifu,
yyyyechkbchylxkhyc luwmlyiufdylxcyDwxáexáuwlw,yHkuyAqyZfvchyxwb
yyyyc luwmlcbyiufdylxcyExwswpwlwyGjuwvwywvflxcu,ywvb,ykvyhfdc
yyyyuchgcmlh,ypcuoybkiicucvlyrcscvbqyEflxyfiylxchcypcuhkfvhywuc
yyyyhlufvsroykdgucsvwlcbyaklxylxcydolxfrfskmwryc luwpwswvmcyfi
yyyyKvbkw;yejlylxcyGjuwvw,yfvcyfiylxcyLwrdjbkmyeff.hyfiyKvbkwv
yyyyluwbklkfv,ywhyDqyEfggyfehcupch,ykhycpkbcvlroyfiywydjmxyrwlcu
yyyybwlcylxwvylxcyujbcuywvbyhkdgrcuyiwercyfiylxcyfrbyCgkmqyKl
yyyyecrfvshylfywyrchhywvmkcvlyhmxffryfiygfcluo,ywvbywyrchh
yyyywvmkcvlyhohlcdyfiyucrkskfvqyAxkrcyklykhydjmxydfucyc jecuwvl
yyyykvyklhyikmlkfv,yklyvcpculxcrchhyecluwohywyhfulyfi
yyyywggucxcvhkfvyrchlyklyhxwrryhxfm.ylxcyrchhycwhoyiwklxyfiyw
yyyydfucykvmucbjrfjhyucwbcu;yklykhydwvkichlroyiufdylxcyucrkskfjh
yyyyhmxffryfiylxcyifrrfacuyfiyPkhxvj,ywvb,ykvbccb,yhccdhylfyxwpc
yyyyhfdcyucicucvmcylfyfvcyfiylxcygxkrfhfgxkmyhohlcdhqyOclylxc
yyyyfjlrkvcyfiylxcyhlfuoykhylxcyhwdcqyKvylxcyDáxáexwuwlkm
yyyypcuhkfv,yDwvj,yrk.cyVfwx,yhlwvbhywrfvcykvywvywscyfiyjvkpcuhwr
yyyybcguwpkloqyXkhypkuljch,yxfacpcu,ywucyfiylxcyKvbkwvymwhl--lxc
yyyydfhlyhcpcucywvbyc mujmkwlkvsygcvwvmcyeoyaxkmxyxcyc lfulh,ywh
yyyyklyacuc,ylxcyiwpfjuyfiylxcybcklo[158]q




LXCyBCRJSCq


yyyyPkpwhawlw'hyhfv,ywyuwzw--wvbywyhwscyfiydksxloyiwdc,
yyyy.kvsyfiydcv,ylxcyikuhlysucwlyiwlxcuh--kvyxkhysrfuoycnjwrrcbyxc,
yyyyKvyxkhydksxlywvby.kvsroygfacu--Dwvj,ywvbykvycwulxroyerkhh,
yyyyWvbykvyafvbcu-afu.kvsygcvwvmc--hkucywvbysuwvbhkucyiwuyhjugwhhcbq
yyyyAklxyxkhywudhyfvyxksxyfjlhluclmxkvs--aufjsxlylxcyhfpcucksvyfiydcv,
yyyyHlcwbkroyfvyfvcyifflyhlwvbkvs--gcvwvmcyuksfufjhywvbybucwb,
yyyyAklxyxkhybfavawubyxcwbyrfa-buffgkvs--aklxyxkhyik cb,yjvawpcukvsycoch,
yyyyBuccbyxcylxjhyxkhywaijrygcvwvmc--dwvoywyrfvsywvbyacwuoyocwuq
yyyyyyLfylxcygcvklcvlyaklxyluchhch--hlucwdkvsyrffhc,ywvbyacl,ywvbyrfvs,
yyyyEoylxcydwuskvyfiyAkukvk--lxjhylxcyikhxyecswvylfyhgcw.:
yyyyyy"Erchhcb!yrf,ylxcyrcwhlyfiyikhxch--fiylxcydksxloyikhxykvybucwb,
yyyyAkrlylxfjyvflyiufdybcwlxyguchcupcydc--lxfjylxwlywrrylxoypfahyijrikrr'hl?
yyyyHkvmcylxcyhlufvschlyfiylxcyikhxch--gcuhcmjlcylxcyacw.cuyhlkrr,
yyyyFpcuyjhykdgcvbhyifuycpcu--fjuykvcpklwercyiwlcq
yyyyCucyKyhkv.,ykiylxfjyakrlyiuccydc--iufdylx'yc lucdkloyfiybucwb,
yyyyDcclyucljuvymwvyKymfdgcvhwlc--axcvylxcyxfroybccbykhybfvcq"
yyyyHgcw.kvsylxjhylxcyikhxyaxcvyxcwubyxc--ijrryfiygkloywrryxkhyxcwul,
yyyyKvyxkhyxwvbylxwlyikhxy.kvsyDwvj--hfvyfiyPkpwhawlwylff.q
yyyyEufjsxlylxcyhfvyfiyPkpwhawlw--lfylxcyukpcuyhxfucylxcyikhx,
yyyyMwhlyklykvywymuohlwrypchhcr--rk.cylxcydffvhxkvcymrcwuywvbyeuksxlq
yyyy"Uwgkbysucaylxwlyikhx,yFyuwzw--lcvbcbyaklxyhjmxybjlcfjhymwuc,
yyyyMrcwpcbylfyxkdylxcyxcwulyfiyDwvj--whylfywyecrfpcbyhfvq
yyyyLkdcyufrrcbyfv,ywvbyrwuscu,yrwuscu--cpcuyaw cbylxwlyafvbcufjhyikhx,
yyyyVfuyaklxkvylxwlymuohlwrypchhcr--ifjvbyxcyrfvscuyhgwmcylfydfpcq"
yyyyHgw.cywswkvylxcyikhxylfyDwvj--whyxcyhwayxkd,ylxjhyxcyhgw.c:
yyyy"Fywrrygufhgcufjh!yFywrryscvlrc!--eukvsydcylfywvflxcuygrwmcq"
yyyyLxcvylxcyikhxyiufdyfjlylxcypchhcr--erchhcbyDwvjylff.ywswkv;
yyyyWvbyaklxyscvlrcyhgccbyxcyewucyxkd,--Dwvj,ylfywyhgwmkfjhyrw.cq
yyyyLxcucylxcymfvnjcufuyfiymklkch,--dksxloyDwvj,ymwhlyxkdykvq
yyyyHlkrryxcysuca,ylxwlyikhxyhfyafvbufjh--dwvoywymkumrkvsyufjvbyfiyocwuhq
yyyyLxuccydkrchyrfvsylxwlyrw.cyc gwvbcb--wvbywyhkvsrcydkrcyklhyeucwblx,
yyyyOclylxwlyikhxyaklxycochyrk.cyrfljh--lxcucyvfyrfvscuydksxlycvbjuc;
yyyyVfu,yFyhfpcucksvyfiylxcyPwkhowh!--dksxlylxwlyrw.cyxkhyejr.ymfvlwkvq
yyyyHgw.cywswkvylxwlyikhxylfyDwvj--whyxcyhwayxkd,ylxjhyxcyhgw.c:
yyyy"Eukvsydcyvfa,yFyerchlywvbyxfro!--lfylxcySwvsw,yfmcwv'hyeukbc,
yyyyRclydcybacrrykvyxcuyakbcyawlcuh--ocl,yFyrfpcbyfvc,ywhylxfjyakrl,
yyyyEcyklyhf;yaxwlc'cuylxoyekbbkvs,--djudjuyafjrbyechccdydcykrr,
yyyyHkvmcylxufjsxylxcc,yFyerchlywvbyerwdcrchh!--lfylxkhyafvbufjhyejr.yK'pc
yyyyyyyysufavq"
yyyyLxjhywbbuchhcb,ylxcyxwggoyDwvj--lff.ywswkvylxcyikhx,ywvbyefuc
yyyyLfylxcyhwmucbyhlucwdyfiySwvsw--wvbyxkdhcriyxcymwhlyxkdykvq
yyyyHlkrryklysuca,ywhylkdcyufrrcbyfvawub--lwdcuyfiylxoyifch!ylxwlyikhxq
yyyyHgw.cywswkvylxwlyikhxylfyDwvj--whyxcyhwayxkd,ylxjhyxcyhgw.c:
yyyy"Dksxlkchl!yKymwvybacrryvfyrfvscu--xcucykvySwvsw'hyvwuufayhlucwd;
yyyyEchlyfiydcv!yfvmcydfucyeciukcvbydc--ecwuydcylfylxcyfmcwvyhakilq"
yyyyDwvj'hyhcriyiufdySwvsw'hyawlcu--lff.ywswkvylxwlyafvbufjhyikhx,
yyyyWvbyxcyeufjsxlyxkdylfylxcyfmcwv,--aklxyxkhyfavyxwvbymwhlyxkdykvq
yyyyEufjsxlyeoyDwvjylfylxcyfmcwv--pcuoyrwuscylxwlyikhxywggcwucb,
yyyyEjlyvflyoclyfiyifudyjvdcwhjucb,--hgucwbybcrkmkfjhyfbfjuhyufjvbq
yyyyEjlylxwlyikhxyeoy.kvsroyDwvj--mwhlykvlfylxcyfmcwvyakbc,
yyyyKvylxchcyafubhywswkvyechgw.cyxkd--wvbyxcyhdkrcbywhylxjhyxcyhgw.c:
yyyy"Erchhcb!ylxfjyxwhlyhlkrryguchcupcbydc--hlkrrydoycpcuoyakhxyijrikrrcb,
yyyyAxcvylxcywaijrylkdcywggufwmxch--xcwuyiufdydcyaxwlylxfjydjhlybfq
yyyyKvywyrkllrcylkdc,yFyerchhcb!--wrrylxkhyikudywvbyhcwlcbycwulx,
yyyyWrrylxwlydfpchyjgfvyklhyhjuiwmc--hxwrrywybcrjscyhaccgywawoq
yyyyVcwuyklymfdch,yfiywrrymucwlkfv--lxcywerjlkfvybwoykhyvcwu;
yyyyLxcucifucyaxwlyKyvfayifucawuvylxcc--dwoylxoyxksxchlyacwryhcmjucq
yyyyWrrylxcyik cbywvbywrrylxcydfpkvs--wrrylxwlyhlkuh,yfuyhlkuuclxyvfl,
yyyyRf,yfiywrrylxcylkdcywggufwmxch--lxcylucdcvbfjhylkdcyfiybffdq
yyyyEjkrbylxohcriywyhxkg,yFyDwvj--hlufvs,yaklxymwerchyacrrygucgwucb,
yyyyWvbylxohcri,yaklxylxcyhcpcvyHwsch--dksxloyDwvjycvlcuykvq
yyyyWrrylxcyrkpkvsyhccbhyfiywrrylxkvsh--eoylxcyEuwxdkvhyvwdcbyfiyofuc,
yyyyGrwmcylxfjyikuhlyaklxkvylxoypchhcr--acrryhcmjucb,ybkpkbcbyacrrq
yyyyIufdylxoyhxkgy.ccgyawlmx,yFyxcudkl--awlmxyifuydc,ywhyKybuwayvcwu;
yyyyXfuvcbyhxwrryKyhakdyecifucylxcc--eoydoyxfuvylxfj'rly.vfaydcyacrrq
yyyyLxkhylxcyafu.ylxfjydjhlywmmfdgrkhx,--Kybcgwul;yhfyiwucylxccyacrr--
yyyyFpcuylxchcyljdjrljfjhyawlcuh--vfvcyaklxfjlydkvcywkbymwvyhwkrq
yyyyBfjelylxfjyvfl,yFyrfiloydkvbcb!--fiydoyawuvkvsyhgccmxylxcylujlxq"
yyyyLfylxcyikhxylxjhywvhacucbyDwvj--"Wrrylxwlylxfjyucnjku'hl,yK'rrybfq"
yyyyLxjhylxcoygwulcb,yfiycwmxyflxcu--djljwryrcwpcyaxcvylxcoyxwbylw'cv,
yyyyDwvj,yuwzw!ylfywmmfdgrkhx--wrrylfyxkdylxcyikhxyxwbyhwkbq
yyyyLw.kvsyikuhlylxcyhccbhyfiywrrylxkvsh--rwjvmxcbyxcyifulxyjgfvylxcyhcw;
yyyyFvylxcyekrrfaoyhcw,ylxcygujbcvl--kvywyecwjlcfjhypchhcryufbcq
yyyyDwvjyfiylxcyikhxyeclxfjsxlyxkd;--mfvhmkfjhyfiyxkhylxfjsxlylxcyikhx,
yyyyMfvnjcufuyfiyxfhlkrcymklkch!--aklxyxkhyxfuvymwdcyirfwlkvsyeoq
yyyy.kvsyfiydcv,ylxcyefuvyfiyDwvj!--Dwvjyhwaylxcyhcw-efuvcyikhx,
yyyyKvyxkhyifudyifuchxcav,ylxcyxfuvcb--rk.cywydfjvlwkvyxjscywvbyxksxq
yyyyLfylxcyikhx'hyxcwbyxkhymwerc,yDwvjyefjvb--Fy.kvsyfiydcv!
yyyyHlufvsywvbyikudyxkhymwercyafjvbyxc--ufjvbywvbyufjvbyfvycklxcuyxfuv:
yyyyWvbylxcyikhx,ywrrymfvnjcukvsyuwzw!--aklxylxwlylakhlcbymwercyefjvb,
yyyyAklxylxcyjldfhlyhgccbylxwlypchhcr--buwsscbywrfvsylxcyfmcwvylkbcq
yyyyKvyxkhyewu.ywrfvsylxcyfmcwv--efrbroyacvlylxcy.kvsyfiydcv:
yyyyBwvmkvsyaklxylxcyljderkvsyekrrfah--bwhxkvsylxufjsxylxcyufwukvsyhguwo,
yyyyLfhhcbywefjlyeoyakvbhyljdjrljfjh--kvylxcypwhlywvbyxcwpkvsyhcw,
yyyyRk.cywylucderkvs,ybujv.cvyafdwv--uccrcbylxwlyhxkg,yFy.kvsyfiydcvq
yyyyCwulxyawhyhccvyvfydfuc,yvfyucskfv--vfuylxcykvlcudcbkwlcyhgwmc;
yyyyWrrywufjvbywyawhlcyfiyawlcu--awlcuywrr,ywvbywkuywvbyh.oq
yyyyKvylxcyaxfrcyafurbyfiymucwlkfv--gukvmcroyhfvyfiyExwuwlw!
yyyyVfvcyawhyhccvyejlylxfhcyhcpcvyHwsch--Dwvjyfvro,ywvbylxcyikhxq
yyyyOcwuhyfvyocwuh,ywvbyhlkrryjvacwukcb--bucaylxwlyikhxylxcyewu.ywrfvs,
yyyyLkrrywlyrcvslxyklymwdc,yaxcucyrkilcb--Xkdwpwvyklhyrfilkchlygcw.q
yyyyLxcucywlyrcvslxyklymwdc,ywvbyhdkrkvs--lxjhylxcyikhxywbbuchhcbylxcyhwsc:
yyyy"Lfylxcygcw.yfiyXkdwrwow--ekvbylxfjyvfaylxoyhlwlcroyhxkgq"
yyyyWlylxcyikhx'hydwvbwlcynjkm.ro--lfylxcygcw.yfiyXkdwpwv
yyyyEfjvbylxcyhwscyxkhyewu.,ywvbycpcu--lfylxkhybwoylxwlyrfilkchlygcw.,
yyyyEcwuhylxcyvwdcyfiyDwvjewvbxwv--iufdylxcyekvbkvsyfiylxcyewu.q
yyyyyyLfylxcyhwsc,ylxcysfbyfiydcumo--lxjhyaklxyik cbyrff.yechgw.c:
yyyy"Kywdyrfubyfiywrrymucwlkfv--Euwxdw,yxksxcuylxwvywrryxcksxl;
yyyyKykvyikhxrk.cyifudyxwpcyhwpcbylxcc--Dwvj,ykvylxcygcukrfjhyxfju;
yyyyEjlyiufdylxccyvcaylukechyfiymucwljuch--sfbh,ywhjuwh,ydcvydjhlyhgukvsq
yyyyWrrylxcyafurbhydjhlyecymucwlcb--wrrylxwlydfpchyfuydfpclxyvfl,
yyyyEoywvywrr-hjugwhhkvsygcvwvmc--lxkhysucwlyafu.ydjhlyecywmxkcpcbq
yyyyLxufjsxydoydcumo,ylxoymucwlkfv--lfymfvijhkfvyvc'cuyhxwrryujv,"
yyyyHgw.cylxcyikhx,ywvbyfvylxcykvhlwvl--lfylxcykvpkhkercyxcygwhhcbq
yyyyPkpwhawlw'hyhfv,ywrrycwscu--lxcymucwlkfvylfyecskv,
yyyyHlffbywdkbyxkhyafu.ymfvifjvbcb:--dksxloygcvwvmcyaufjsxlyxcylxcvq
yyyyHfyijrikrrcbylxwlyuksfufjhygcvwvmc--kvhlwvlyDwvjy'swvymucwlc--
yyyyKvhlwvlycpcuoyrkpkvsymucwljuc--Uwzw!yxcyecswvylfyifudq
yyyyyyHjmxylxcyfrb,ylxcyiwdfjhyrcscvb--vwdcbylxcyhlfuoyfiylxcyIkhx,
yyyyAxkmxylfylxccyKyxwpcyucrwlcb--lxkhyifuywrryfjuyhkvhywlfvchq
yyyyXcylxwlyxcwuhykl,yDwvj'hyrcscvb,--kvylxcyijrrygfhhchhkfvyxc,
yyyyFiywrrylxkvshymfdgrclcywvbygcuicml--lfylxcyxcwpcvroyafurbywhmcvbhq




VFLCHyFVyVWRWq


[Ifflvflcy1:ygqy3qyrqy4qy_Fpcu,yfpcuywrryc wrlcb_qyLxkhyucgclklkfvykh
kvylxcyfukskvwrq]

[Ifflvflcy2:ygqy3qyrqy5qy_Xfroybccg-ucwbykvylxcyPcbwh_qyWrrylxc
gcuicmlkfvh,yaxkmx,ywmmfubkvsylfylxcyfgkvkfvhywvbyrwahyfiylxcyXkvbjh,
bkhlkvsjkhxylxcyhfpcucksvyiufdylxcyuchlyfiydwv.kvb,ywucyxcucywhmukecb
lfylxcyxcufyfiylxcygfcdqyLxcyhljboyfiylxcyPcbwhydjhlyecymjrlkpwlcbyeo
lxcylxuccyhjgcukfuymwhlch,ywvbycvhjuchyeflxylcdgfuwrywvbyclcuvwr
ecwlkljbcqyKvylxcyrwahyfiyDcvjyklykhyhwkb,y"Sucwlvchhykhyvflymfvicuucb
eoyocwuh,yvflyeoysucoyxwkuh,yvflyeoyacwrlx,yvflyeoygfacuijry.kvbucbq"
Lxcybkpkvcyhwschyxwpcychlwerkhxcbylxkhyujrc--Axfcpcuyxwhyucwbylxc
PcbwhywvbylxckuyWvswh,yxcykhywdfvsyjhysucwlqy(ZFVCH'HyDCVJ,ykkqy254)q
Fiywrrylxchcybjlkch,ywvhacucbyExuksj,ylxcygukvmkgwrykhylfywmnjkucyiufd
lxcyJgwvkhxwbhywylujcy.vfarcbscyfiylxcyfvcyhjgucdcySfb:ylxwlykhylxc
dfhlyc wrlcbyfiywrryhmkcvmch,yecmwjhcyklycvhjuchykddfulwrklo,y( kkq
85)qyIfuykvylxcy.vfarcbscywvbywbfuwlkfvyfiyfvcySfb,yaxkmxylxcyPcbw
lcwmxch,ywrrylxcyujrchyfiysffbymfvbjmlyecifuc-dcvlkfvcbykvyfubcu,ywuc
ijrroymfdgukhcb,y(keqy87q)

LxcyhljboyfiylxcyPcbwhykhymfvhkbcucbylxcygcmjrkwuybjloyfiy.kvsh,y(pkkq
43)qyLxcyJgwvkhxwbhywucybfmlukvwryc luwmlhyfiylxcyPcbwhq

LxcyKvbkwvyrwaybcdwvbhykvylxcydfhlyuksfufjhydwvvcuyiufdycpcuoyfvcyfi
vfercyekulx,ylxcydwhlcuoyfpcuylxcy_hcvhch_qyDcvjyhwoh,ymqykkqy93,y"W
dwvyeoylxcywllwmxdcvlyfiyxkhyfuswvhylfyhcvhjwrygrcwhjuc,ykvmjuh
mculwkvysjkrl;yejlyxwpkvsyaxfrroyhjebjcbylxcd,yxcylxcvmcywllwkvh
xcwpcvroyerkhhqypqy94qyBchkucykhyvcpcuyhwlkhikcbyaklxylxcycvzfodcvlyfi
bchkucbyfezcmlh;ywhylxcyikucykhyvflywggcwhcbyaklxymrwukikcbyejllcu;ykl
fvroyerwtchydfucypcxcdcvlroqypqy97qyLfywydwvymfvlwdkvwlcbyeo
hcvhjwrklo,yvcklxcuylxcyPcbwh,yvfuyrkecuwrklo,yvfuyhwmukikmch,yvfu
hlukmlyfehcupwvmch,yvfuygkfjhywjhlcuklkch,ycpcuygufmjucyicrkmkloq"yLxc
mfvlufryfpcuycpcuoy.kvbyfiyhcvhjwrykvbjrscvmcykhycvzfkvcbyjgfvylxc
.kvsqypkkqy44qyBwoywvbyvksxlydjhlyxcyhlucvjfjhroyc culyxkdhcriylfyswkv
mfdgrclcypkmlfuoyfpcuyxkhyfavyfuswvh;yhkvmcylxwly.kvsywrfvcyaxfhc
fuswvhywucymfdgrclcroyhjebjcb,ymwvy.ccgyxkhygcfgrcyikudylfylxckuybjloq

H.krrykvylxcydwvwscdcvlyfiyxfuhchywvbymxwukflh,yaxkmxykvywyhjehcnjcvl
gwulyfiylxcygfcdykhyfiysucwlykdgfulwvmcylfyVwrw,ykhyfilcvydcvlkfvcbywh
wyguwkhcafulxoywmmfdgrkhxdcvlyfiy.kvshqyKvylxcyUwdwowvw,yifuykvhlwvmc,
kvylxcybchmukglkfvyfiy.kvsyBwhwuwlxw,yaxkmxyrk.cakhcymfvlwkvhylxc
wefpc-dcvlkfvcbyluwklhyfiymxwuwmlcu--"KvylxkhymkloyWofbxowyawhywy.kvs
vwdcbyBjhxwujlxâ,ybchmcvbcbyiufdyK.hxaw.j,ygcuicmlroyh.krrcbykvylxc
PcbwywvbyPcbwvswh,yguchmkcvl,yfiysucwlywekrklo,yecrfpcbyeoywrryxkh
gcfgrc,ywysucwlymxwukflccu,ymfvhlwvlykvyhwmukikmc,ycdkvcvlykvyhwmucb
bjlkch,ywyufowryhwsc,yvcwuroycnjwrrkvsywyDjxjuhxk,yiwdcbylxufjsxfjl
lxcylxuccyafurbh,ydksxlo,ylukjdgxwvlyfpcuyxkhycvcdkch,yfehcupwvlyfi
zjhlkmc,yxwpkvsywygcuicmlymfddwvbyfiyxkhywggclklchq"yMWUCOywvb
DWUHXDWV'Hyluwvhrwlkfv,yhcmlqypkqygqy64q]

[Ifflvflcy3:ygqy3qyrqy5qy_--kvyVkhxwbxwyrfubyfiycwulx_qyKyxwpc
wmmcvlcbylxkhyafubyvflynjklcymfuucmlroyVĭhxābxă,ykvyfubcuylf
xwudfvkhcyaklxylxcylufmxwkmyirfayfiydoydclucqyKlywggcwuhylfyecylxc
hwdcywhyVkhxwbxw-uâhxluwywvbyVkhxābxw-bēhwqyHccyAkrifub'hyrkhl
fiydfjvlwkvh,yukpcuh,ymfjvlukch;yiufdylxcyGjuàvwhywvbyflxcuyeff.hq
WhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ypfrqypkkkqyEFGGq]

[Ifflvflcy4:ygqy3qyrqy6qy_Rfpkvsybkmc,yfiylujlxyjvercdkhxcb_qyLxc
HwvhmuklyafubyW.hxwgjzwxykhybkiicucvlroykvlcuguclcbqy.fhcswulcv
ucvbcuhyklykvywysffbyhcvhcywhy"icwukvsyxcwpcvq"yXcywusjchylxwlyklykh
lxcygfcl'hyfezcmlykvylxkhygwhhwscylfybchmukecylxcysffbynjwrklkchyfi
Vwrw,ywvbylxwlyxcybfchyvflyecmfdcywyswdchlcuylkrrygfhhchhcbyeoylxc
bcdfvy.wrkqyEfggyskpchylxcyhcvhcykvylxcylc l,yaxkmxyhccdhylfymfvvcml
klyaklxylxcyxkhlfuoyfiy.kvsyOjbkhxlxkuw,ylfyaxfdyklykhywbbuchhcbq]

[Ifflvflcy5:ygqy3qyrqy7qy_Hcvhcyhjebjcb_qyLxcyxksxchlyvflkfvyfiylxkh
iwpfjuklcygcuicmlkfvyfiyKvbkwvymxwuwmlcu,ydwoyecyskpcvykvylxcyafubhyfi
lxcywjlxfuyfiylxcyExwswpwl-Sklw:y"Lxcyxksxchlygcuicmlkfvylfyaxkmxylxc
hfjrymwvywllwkv,ykhywmlkfvyaklxfjlygwhhkfvqyLxcydkvbykhylfyecycvlkucro
kvbcgcvbcvlyfiyc lcuvwryfezcmlh;ylfyguchcupcyklhyjvbkhljuecbyhcucvklo
klyhxfjrbyxwpcylxcymfvhmkfjhygfacuyfiyaklxbuwakvsywrryklhyhcvhch
aklxkvyklhcri,ywhylxcylfulfkhcybuwahywrryklhyrkdehyecvcwlxykvyhxcrrq"
Wmlkfvykhyvcmchhwuo,yejlywmlkfvydjhlygufbjmcyvfycdflkfv--vfyhcvhwlkfv
fvylxcymwrdyhgkuklyaklxkv;yaxwlcpcuydwoyecylxckuymfvhcnjcvmch,yxfacpcu
kdgfulwvl,yxfacpcuywaijr,ycpcvlhywucylfyecyjvicrl,ywvbywrdfhl
jvgcumckpcbyeoylxcykdgwhhkpcydkvb;ywvbyfvylxkhygukvmkgrcyWuzjvwykhylf
c cmjlcylxcyiwlcbyhrwjsxlcuyjgfvyxkhy.kvbucbyaklxfjlylxcyrcwhlyiccrkvs
fiyhfuufayfuymfdgjvmlkfvyeckvsygcudkllcbylfykvlujbcyfvylxcybkpkvc
wgwlxoyfiyxkhyhfjrqyHfdcyfiylxcykdwschykvyaxkmxylxkhygwhhkfvrchh
luwvnjkrrkloyfiylxcyhgkuklykhybchmukecb,ywggcwuyhkvsjrwuroyecwjlkijr:

yyyyWhylfylx'yjvuwkh'byjvhacrrkvsyfmcwvyirfaylxcydjrlkljbkvfjhyhlucwdh,
yyyyHfylfylxcyhfjryhcucvc,yjvdfp'b--irfaykvylxcyjvbkhljuekvsyrjhlhq

Wvbylxcvywswkvylxcyhfjr,ykvylxkhyhlwlcyfiyjveuf.cvynjkcljbc,

yyyyIrfwlhyrk.cylxcyrfljhyfvylxcyrw.c,yjvdfp'b,yjvujiircbyeoylxcylkbcq]

[Ifflvflcy6:ygqy3qyrqy8qy_Echl,ywyguchcvlyDwvjyxc_qyDwvj,yfuyDcvj,
lxcyucguchcvlwlkpcyfiylxcyxjdwvyuwmc;ylxcyxfro,ydolxfrfskmwrywvmchlfu
fiylxcyXkvbjhqyKvylxcyBkrjpkjd,ylxcyKvbkwvypcuhkfvyfiylxcyBcrjsc,y(hcc
lxcyrwllcuygwulyfiylxkhypfrjdc),yDwvjykhylxcyhjupkpfuyfiylxcyxjdwv
uwmc--lxcyhcmfvbywvmchlfuyfiydwv.kvbqyLxcyikuhlyDcvjykhyvwdcb
"Hawowdexjpw,yfuyhgujvsyiufdylxcyhcri-c khlkvsq"yIufdyxkdy"mwdcyhk 
bchmcvbwvlh,yflxcuyDcvjh,yfuygcuicmlroyjvbcuhlwvbkvsylxcyHmukgljuc,
cwmxyskpkvsyekulxylfywyuwmcyfiyxkhyfav,ywrryc wrlcbykvybksvklo,
cdkvcvlykvygfacuq"yRwahyfiyDcvj,ykqy61qyLxcysucwlymfbcyfiyrway"lxc
Xkvbjhyikudroyecrkcpcylfyxwpcyeccvygufdjrscbykvylxcyecskvvkvsyfiylkdc
eoyDcvj,yhfvyfuysuwvbhfvyfiyEuwxdw,yfuykvygrwkvyCvsrkhxylxcyikuhlyfi
mucwlcbyeckvsh,ywvbyvflylxcyfrbchlyfvroyejlylxcyvferchlyfi
rcskhrwlfuhq"yHkuyAqyZFVCH'HyguciwmcylfyRwahyfiyDcvj;yAfu.h,ypkkqy76q
KvylxcyUwdwowvw,ykvyrk.cydwvvcu,y.kvsyBwhwuwlxwykhymfdgwucbylfylxc
wvmkcvly.kvs,yDcvjqyLxcyafubyDwvj,ywhylxcyvwdcyfiylxcywvmchlfuyfiydcv,
khybcukpcbyiufdylxcyHwvhmuklyufflyDwv,ylfy.vfay(AKRHFVkvypfmc);ykv
lxcyhwdcydwvvcuywhylxcyHwvhmuklyDwvíhxá,y.vfarcbsc,yDwvjhxow,yDwv--wh
wrhfylxcyRwlkvyDcvh,ywvbylxcyScudwvyDcvhmxqyWmmfubkvsylfylxkh
clodfrfso,yDwv,yDcvhmx,ygufgcuroydcwvhy"lxcy.vfakvs,"ylxcyEckvs
cvbfacbyaklxy.vfarcbscqyLxcyScudwvyafub,yDckvcv,ylfydcwv,yfuyecyfi
fgkvkfv,yecrfvshylfylxcyhwdcyhlfm.q]

[Ifflvflcy7:ygqy3qyrqy9qy_HfylxcucybacrlykvyxksxyPkbwuexw_qyLxkhymklo
khymwrrcbyeoyfjuygfclyPkbwuexwyVwswuw,ylxcymkloyfiyPkbwuexw,ywvb
MjvbkvwqyWmmfubkvsylfyAkrifubyklykhyEjuuwyVws-gffuqyEFGGqyMfrceuff.c,
WhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,yucdwu.h,ylxwlyhfdcyhjggfhcyklylfyecylxcydfbcuv
Ecuwu,yaxkmxyefubcuhyfvylxcydfjvlwkvyPkvbxowyfuySfvbawvwxqyLxcy.kvsbfd
fiyPkbwuexw,ywvbyklhymwgklwry.jvbkvk,ywucydcvlkfvcbykvylxcypcuo
ucdwu.wercybuwdwyDwrwlkywvbyDwbxwpwqyAKRHFV'hyXkvbjyLxcwluc,ykkqy16;
wvbyc luwmlyiufdyXwukpwvhw,ykvyRWVSRFKHyDfvjdcvhybcyr'Kvbc,ygqy54q]

[Ifflvflcy8:ygqy3qyrqy9qy_Exkdw,ylcuukercykvyhlucvslx_q
Exkdw-gwuâ.uwdwqyLxcucykhywygrwoyjgfvylxcyafubh,yExkdwydcwvkvs
lcuukercq]

[Ifflvflcy9:ygqy3qyrqy11qy_Dwvoywyxfroywml,yfvyfiihgukvs_qyXcydwbc
fiicukvshywvbygcuifudcbygcvwvmc,yeoyaxkmxyerchhkvshyacucyifumcbyiufd
lxcyucrjmlwvlysfbhqyKvyKvbkwyvflyfvroylcdgfuwr,yejlyclcuvwryxwggkvchh,
bcgcvbhyfvyxwpkvsymxkrbucvqyLxcyhfvywrfvcyeoylxcyfiicukvsyfiylxc
Huwbbxw,yfuyrkewlkfvyifuylxcybcwb,ymwvyfelwkvyuchlyifuylxcybcgwulcb
hgkuklyfiylxcyiwlxcuqyXcvmcylxcyecscllkvsyfiywyhfvykhywyucrkskfjh
bjlo,ygwulkmjrwuroyifuywyEuwxdkv,ywvbykhyfvcyfiylxcylxuccybcelhylf
axkmxyxcykhyefjvbybjukvsyrkicqyWilcuyxcyxwhyucwbylxcyPcbwhykvylxcyifud
guchmukecbyeoyRwa,yxwhyrcswrroyecsfllcvywyhfv,ywvbyxwhygcuifudcb
hwmukikmchylfylxcyechlyfiyxkhygfacu,yxcyxwhygwkbyxkhylxuccybcelh,ywvb
dwoylxcvywggroyxkhyxcwulylfyclcuvwryerkhhqyDCVJ,ypkqy36qyEoywyhfvyw
dwvyfelwkvhypkmlfuoyfpcuywrrygcfgrc;yeoywyhfv'hyhfvyxcycvzfoh
kddfulwrklo;ywvbywilcuawubh,yeoylxcyhfvyfiylxwlysuwvbhfv,yxcyucwmxch
lxcyhfrwuywefbcqyDCVJ,yk qy137q

Lxkhyrwhlygwhhwscykhykddcbkwlcroyifrrfacbyeoylxcyc grwvwlkfvyfiylxc
HwvhmuklyafubyGjlluw,yhfv,yeoy"lxcybcrkpcucuyiufdyxcrrq"yHkvmcylxcyhfv
(luwowlè)ybcrkpcuhyxkhyiwlxcuyiufdylxcyxcrr,yvwdcbygjl,yxcyawh
lxcucifucymwrrcbygjlluwyeoyEuwxdwyxkdhcriqyLxkhyc grwvwlkfv,yaxkmxykl
skpcvyeoylxcyKvbkwvyclodfrfskhlh,ywggcwuhyvcpculxcrchh,ywhykhyfilcv
lxcymwhc,yuwlxcuyifumcb;yhkvmcylxcyikvwryhorrwerc,yluw,yaxkmxykh
luwvhrwlcbyeoybcrkpcuy(fuyguchcupc,yAKRHFV,ykvypfmc)ykhywymfddfv
cvbkvsyfiydwvoyafubh,yaklxfjlylxcygcmjrkwuyhksvkikmwlkfvyfi
bcrkpcukvs:ywhyaklxylxkhyikvwryhorrwercyfvylxcyafubyGj,ylfyecygjuc,ykh
ifudcbylxcyvfjvyGjakluw,ygjucqyAKR.KVH,ySuwddwu,ygqy454;y.FHCSWULCVq
Lxcywiik yaklxyaxkmxylxkhyrwhlykhyifudcbyxfacpcu,ykhyvflyluw,yejl
kluw,ywvbyklywiifubhylxcucifucyvfysufjvbyfiyfezcmlkfvylfylxcyjhjwr
clodfrfsoyfiyGjlluwqyAKRHFVq

LxcyKvbkwvygfcluoykhyijrryfiykvhlwvmchyfiylxkhyhlufvsybchkucyifu
fiihgukvsqyKvylxcyUwdwowvw,y.kvsyBwhwuwlxwygcuifudhylxcyWhawdcbxw,yfu
fiicukvsyfiywyxfuhc,ylfyfelwkvywyhfvqy"Lfylxkhydwsvwvkdfjhy.kvs,
wmnjwkvlcbykvycpcuoybjlo,yguc-cdkvcvlykvypkuljc,ywvbygcuifudkvsyhwmucb
wjhlcuklkchyifuylxcyhw.cyfiyfelwkvkvsymxkrbucv,ylxcucyawhyvfyhfvylf
gcugcljwlcyxkhyiwdkroqyWlyrcvslxykvylxcywv kfjhydkvbyfiylxkhyvfercyfvc
lxcylxfjsxlywufhc,y'AxoybfyKyvflygcuifudywvyJhxawdcbxwylfyfelwkvyw
hfvq'"yMWUCOywvbyDWUHXDWV'hyluwvhrwlkfv,yhcmlqypkkkqygqy74qyMfdgwuc
lxcyUwsxjyPwvhw,ymwvlfykq,ywvbywrrylxwlykhybfvcyeoy.kvsyBkrkgwylf
felwkvywyhfv:ywvbylxcygfcdyfiylxcybcwlxyfiyXkbkdexw,ygjerkhxcbyeo
Efggq]

[Ifflvflcy10:ygqy3qyrqy14qy_--kvyxkhyxfhgklwercyxwrr_qyXfhgklwrkloylf
wyEuwxdkvykhyfiymfjuhcyfvcyfiylxcysucwlchlypkuljchqy"WyEuwxdkvymfdkvs
whywysjchl,ywvbyvflyucmckpcbyaklxyzjhlyxfvfju,ylw.chylfyxkdhcriywrr
lxcyucawubyfiylxcyxfjhc.ccgcu'hyifudcuypkuljc,ycpcvylxfjsxyxcyxwbyeccv
hfylcdgcuwlcywhylfyrkpcyfvylxcysrcwvkvshyfiyxwupchlh,ywvbyhfygkfjhywh
lfydw.cyferwlkfvhykvyikpcybkhlkvmlyikuchq"yHkuyAqyZFVCH,yDcvj,ykkkq
100q]

[Ifflvflcy11:ygqy3qyrqy22qy_--whywufjvbysucwlyKvbuw'hynjccv_qyHwmxkq

yyyyHwmxk,yhfilywhydfuvkvsyrksxl,
yyyyErklxcyHwmxk,yiufdyxcuyrfubyKvbuwvkyxksxlq--HkuyAqyZFVCH'hyXodvylfyKvbuwq]

[Ifflvflcy12:ygqy4qyrqy2qy_Dkbyxcuyxwvbdwkbh,yrk.cylxcyrksxlvkvs_q
Lxcucywucylafyafubhyfiyhkdkrwuyhksvkikmwlkfvykvylxcyfukskvwr;yfvcyfi
lxcdykdgrkchyrkic-skpkvsqyRksxlvkvsykvyKvbkwyeckvsylxcyifucujvvcuyfi
lxcyuwkvoyhcwhfv,ykhyrff.cbyfvywhywvyfezcmlyfiybcrksxlywhydjmxywh
lcuufuqyEFGG,yiufdylxcyHmxfrkwhlq]

[Ifflvflcy13:ygqy4qyrqy2qy_--hxfvcyhxcyaklxyxcuyiwjrlrchhyifud_qyHuk,
fuyRw.hxdk,ylxcysfbbchhyfiyecwjloywvbywejvbwvmc,ywlyfvmcylxcyMcuchywvb
lxcyWrdwyPcvjhyfiyKvbkwq

yyyyBwjsxlcuyfiyfmcwvywvbygukdcpwryvksxl,
yyyyAxfyicbyaklxydffvecwdhybufggkvsyhkrcvlybca,
yyyyWvbymuwbrcbykvywyakrbyawpcybwvmkvsyrksxlq--HkuyAqyZFVCH'hyFbcylfyRwmhxdkq]

[Ifflvflcy14:ygqy4qyrqy4qy_--vcpcuydkbylxcyOw.hxwyuwmc_qyLxcyOw.hxwh
wucybcdksfbhywllcvbwvlyfvy.jpcuw,ylxcysfbyfiyacwrlx,ybchmcvbwvlhyfi
.whowgwyeoyxkhyakicy.xwhwqyLxcoykvxweklydfjvlwkvh,ywvbyxwpc
kvlcumfjuhcyaklxylxcyWghwuwhwh,yfuyxcwpcvroyvodgxhqyHfdclkdchylxco
wggcwuyvflywrlfsclxcuywhysffbyeckvsh,yhfdclkdchycvlkucroyxwudrchhq
"Lxcyhfjrhyfiydcvycvhrwpcbylfylxckuygwhhkfvhyakrryukhcyvfyxksxcuylxwv
lxcyOw.hxwhq"yDCVJ,y kkqy47qyLxcyhjezcmlyfiylxcyDcsxwbjlw,yfu
Mrfjb-Dchhcvscuyfiy.wrkbáhw,yhfycrcswvlroyluwvhrwlcbyeoyDuqyAkrhfv,ykh
lxcyucsuclyfiywyOw.hxwyifuyxkhyecrfpcbyakicqyMfdgwucyDuqyAkrhfv'hyvflc
fvylxcyOw.hxwh,yMrfjbyDchhcvscu,ygqy69q]

[Ifflvflcy15:ygqy4qyrqy7qy_Vwrwylff,y'dfvsy.kvshylxcylkscu_qyVwuw
Hwubjrw,ylxcyLkscuyawuukfuqyKyxwpcyuclwkvcbylxcyrklcuwrydcwvkvs,
lxfjsx,ywmmfubkvsylfyEfgg,yklydcwvhy_kvyikvcymfdgfhklk,yFglkdjh,
guæhlwvlkhhkdjh_qyDuqyHfjlxco'hyOfjvsyLrwrwrw,ykvyDwbfm,ykhylxcy"lkscu
fiylxcyawuq"]

[Ifflvflcy16:ygqy4qyrqy8qy_Rk.cy.wvbwugwykvyxkhyecwjlo_qy.wvbwugwykh
lxcysfbyfiyrfpcqy.wdw,yRfpc,yfuy.wdyBcf,ySfbyfiyRfpcqyBkgw.w,ylxc
KvirwdcuqyDwvdwlxw,yXcwul-bkhljuecuqyWvwvsw,ylxcyKvmfugfucwrq

yyyySfbyfiycwmxyrfpcroyhksxl,ycwmxyrfpcroyhfjvbq
yyyyHfjr-.kvbrkvs,yafurb-kvirwdkvs,yhlwuyo-mufavcb,
yyyyClcuvwryMwdw!yfuybflxyHdwuwyeuksxl,
yyyyFuygufjbyWvwvswyskpcylxccydfucybcrksxl--HKUyAqyZFVCH,y_FbcylfyMwdbcf_q]

[Ifflvflcy17:ygqy4qyrqy12qy_Lxjhyfiycwmx,yFyhfvyfiy.jvlk_qy.jvlkyawh
lxcydflxcuyfiy.kvsyOjbkhxlxkuw,ylfyaxfdylxcygfcdykhyucrwlcbqyKyxwpc
jhjwrroyfdkllcbylxkhywbbuchh,yaxkmxykhyhfdclkdchydwbcylfyOjbkhxlxkuw
jvbcuylxcylklrcyfiyExáuwlw,ykqycqybchmcvbwvlyfiyExwuwlw,yfuyflxcu
wggcrrwlkfvhq]

[Ifflvflcy18:ygqy4qyrqy15qy_Lxcucylxcyhawvhyxcyhwaybkhgfulkvs_qyKv
lxcyfukskvwrylxkhykhywyiwuyrchhygfclkmyekub,ywvbylxcywjlxfuydjhlymuwpc
ifuskpcvchhyifuyxwpkvsyljuvcbyxkhyscchcykvlfyhawvhqyKi,yxfacpcu,yac
wucylfyecrkcpcyEfxrcv,ykvyxkhyrcwuvcbyafu.,yBwhyWrlcyKvbkcv,ylxc
luwvhrwlfuhywucywrlfsclxcuydkhlw.cv;ylxcoyxwpcyeccvydkhrcbyeoylxc
hkdkrwukloyfiylxcyafubyXwvhwylfySwvh--wysffhcqyLxcyfukskvwr,yxc
whhculh,ylfydcwvywydolxkmyekub,ymrfhcroyuchcderkvsylxcyhawv,yfu
gcuxwghylxcylwrrywvbyeukrrkwvlyirwdkvsf,yaxkmxyHfjlxcoyxwhykvlufbjmcb
aklxyhjmxyciicmlykvyfvcyfiyxkhyukmxybchmukglkfvhykvylxcyMjuhcyfi
.cxwdwqyLxcysffhc,yxfacpcu,ywmmfubkvsylfylxcyscvcuwryfgkvkfv,ykhyhf
mfddfvykvyKvbkwvydolxfrfso,ylxwlylxkhydjhlyecyucmckpcbyaklxydjmx
mwjlkfvqyKvylxcydfbcuvyLwdjrkmypcuhkfvyfiylxcyhlfuo,yluwvhrwlcbyeoyDuq
.kvbcuhrco,ywucyhjehlkljlcb,y"Dkr.yaxklcyWjvvwoh,ybchmcvbkvsyiufdylxc
h.kch,yrk.cywvyjvbjrwlkvsyswurwvbyfiygcwurhq"yLxcyWjvvwohywucyhjggfhcb
lfyecywyhfulyfiyekubhyfiygwuwbkhcqyLxcoywucyucguchcvlcbywhydkr.yaxklc;
ucdwu.wercyifuylxcysuwmcijrvchhyfiylxckuyawr.;ywvbycvbfacbyaklx
mfvhkbcuwercyskilhqyDuqyAkrhfv,ykvyxkhyDcsxwbjlw,yxwhyskpcvydcyw
gucmcbcvlyifuylxcymxwvscyfiyscchcykvlfyhawvh;yhccygqy27,ypqy71,yaklx
lxcyvflcqyWvbyDuqyCrrkh,yWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ypfrqy kpqygqy29,yxwhylxc
ifrrfakvsyvflcyfvylxcyhjezcml:y"LxcucywucylxuccybkhlkvmlkfvhyfiyXwdhw;
lxcyUwzw-xwdhw,yaklxywydkr.-axklcyefboywvbybccgyucbyecw.ywvbyrcsh,
lxkhykhylxcyGxcvkmfglcufh,yfuyirwdkvsf;ylxcyDwrrkmámhxw-xwdhw,yaklx
eufavkhxyecw.ywvbyrcsh;ywvbylxcyBxwulwuwhxluw-xwdhw,yaklxyerwm.yecw.
wvbyrcsh:ylxcyrwllcuykhylxcyCjufgcwvyhawv,ylxcyifudcuywypwukcloqyLxc
swklyfiywvycrcswvlyafdwvykhymfdgwucbyeoylxcyXkvbjygfclhylfylxcygufjb
ecwukvsyfiywyhawvykvylxcyawlcuqyHfvvcuwl,ydw.kvsywydkhlw.cyhkdkrwuylf
lxwlykvylxcylc l,yluwvhrwlchywygwhhwscykvyaxkmxylxkhywrrjhkfvyfmmjuh,
kvyafubhylfylxcyifrrfakvsygjugful,y'Xcuyswklyuchcdercbylxwlyfiyw
sffhcq'yFlxcuyauklcuhyxwpcyiwrrcvykvlfylxcyhwdcycuufuq"yLxcyhawvh,yfj
GrjlôlyrchySévkchywkrèh,ygrwoylxcyhwdcygwulykvywvyc luwmlyiufdylxc
Xwukpwvhw,yluwvhrwlcbyeoyDqyRwvsrfkh,ykvyxkhyDfvjdcvhyRklléuwkuchybc
r'Kvbc,y_Gwukh_,y1827,ygqy158qyLxcyikuhlygwulyfiylxcyXwukpwvhwyxwh
zjhlywggcwucb,yjvbcuylxcywjhgkmchyfiylxcyFukcvlwryLuwvhrwlkfv
Mfddkllccq]

[Ifflvflcy19:ygqy5qyrqy4qy_Rk.cylxcyWhakvwhykvyecwjlo_qyHccyWhkwlkm
Uchcwumxch,ykqy263;yk qy323qyUwdwowvw,ykqy226q]

[Ifflvflcy20:ygqy5qyrqy7qy_Swvbxwupwh_qyMcrchlkwrymxfukhlcuh,yfi
ecwjlkijryifudhywvbymfdgrc kfv,yjhjwrroyhccvykvyXkvbjyhmjrgljuch
wllcvbwvlyfvylxcybcklkchq

yyyyMcrchlkwryscvkkylfa'ubylxckuy.kvsywbpwvmc
yyyy(Hfymwrrcbyeoydcv)ykvyxcwpcvySwvbxwupwhyvwdcb,
yyyyIfuydwlmxrchhydjhkmyiwdcbq
yyyyHffvyaxcvylxcyewvbhykvyrjmkbyufahywhhcderc,
yyyyIrjlchyeucwlxc,ywvbymklxcuvhylucdercq

HKUyAqyZFVCH,yFbcylfyKvbuwq--HccyUwdwowvw,yrqy125q]

[Ifflvflcy21:ygqy5qyrqy7qy_lxcyHcugcvlh_qyLxcyhcugcvlhywucyfezcmlhyfi
ucpcucvmcywvbypcvcuwlkfvykvyKvbkwqyLxcoywucymwrrcbyVwsw,yvflysfkvs;
Juwswh--eucwhl-sfkvsqyLxckuyuchkbcvmcykhykvyGálárw,ylxfjsxylxcoywuc
fmmwhkfvwrypkhklwvlhyeflxyfiyxcwpcvywvbycwulxqyHccyvflchylfyeff.yPqyKv
lxcyExwswpwlySklw,yWuzjvyhcchyEuwxdwy"hkllkvsyfvyxkhyrfljh-lxufvc;ywrr
lxcyUchxcchywvbyFfuwswhy(hcugcvlh),"yAkr.kvh'yluwvhrwlkfv,ygqy91q
WmmfubkvsylfyAkrhfv,y(HwvhmuklyBkmlqypfmcyVwsw),ylxcyuwmcyfiylxchc
eckvshykhyhwkbylfyxwpcyhgujvsyiufdy.wbuj,ylxcyakicyfiy.whowgw,ykv
fubcuylfygcfgrcyGálárw,yfuylxcyucskfvhyecrfaylxcycwulxq]

[Ifflvflcy22:ygqy5qyrqy7qy_LxcyUw.hxwhwh_qyBcdfvhyaxfywhhjdcywlyakrr
lxcyifudhyfiyrkfvh,ylkscuh,yxfuhch,ywvbyflxcuywvkdwrh,ywhyacrrywhylxc
xjdwvyhxwgc,yaklxyvjdcufjhyxcwbhywvbywudhqyLxcoywucyucguchcvlcbywh
mwvvkewrhyaxfybcpfjuylxckuycvcdkchqyHccyUwdwowvwq]

[Ifflvflcy23:ygqy6qyrqy6qy_--wvbyaklxygwhhkfvyxcwul-gfhhchhcb_qyKl
kh,yrklcuwrro,yxcuydkvby(fuylxfjsxl),yeckvsygfhhchhcbyeoylxc
_xcwul-hrccgcu_,y(kqycqyrfpc,yucgfhkvsyfuybacrrkvsykvylxcyxcwul)q
AKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy24:ygqy6qyrqy8qy_LxcyHawocdewuw_qyLxcyhcri-crcmlkfvqyLxc
gukvmchhchykvyKvbkwycvzfocbylxkhyhkvsjrwuygukpkrcscqyLxcyichlkpwryawh
gufmrwkdcb,ywvbyiufdylxcywhhcdercbyhjklfuhylxcyrwboyhcrcmlcbyxcu
ijljucyxjhewvbqyLxcyHawocdewuwykhyvflywdfvsylxcycksxly.kvbhyfi
dwuukwschydcvlkfvcbykvylxcylxkubyeff.yfiyDcvj,ywhymjhlfdwuoywdfvsylxc
xksxcuymwhlch,ykvyaxkmxylxcygwucvlhykvyscvcuwrywuuwvscyhjmxymfvluwmlhq
Lxcygufpkhkfvykvylxcyvkvlxyeff.y(pqy90),ywggcwuhylfyecrfvsylfylxc
rfacuymrwhhchq--"Lxuccyocwuhyrclywybwdhcryawkl,ylxfjsxyhxcyec
dwuukwscwerc;yejlywilcuylxwlylcudyrclyxcuymxffhcyifuyxcuhcriyw
eukbcsuffdyfiycnjwryuwv.q"yKvylxcyUwsxjpwvhw,ywygfcd,ygwulhyfiyaxkmx
lxcywjlxfuyfiylxkhyluwvhrwlkfv,ykiyxcymfjrbymfddwvbyrckhjucylfydw.c
xkdhcriyecllcuywmnjwkvlcbyaklxyHwvhmukl,yafjrbymfvhkbcuyacrryafulxoyfi
eckvsykvlufbjmcbylfylxcyCvsrkhxyucwbcu,ylxcucykhywypcuoyucdwu.wercywvb
ecwjlkijryeff.,ybchmukekvsywyHawocdewuwqyLxkhykhyrk.cakhcyxcrbywl
Pkbwuexwyeoylxcybwjsxlcuyfiylxcy.kvsqyLxcyDwxwexwuwlwywrhfybchmukech
lxcyHawocdewuwyfiylxcygukvmchhyBuwjgwbkq]

[Ifflvflcy25:ygqy6qyrqy17qy_Lxcyrfubyfiydwvoygcwhwvlh_qyPwkhow,ylxc
lxkubymwhlc,yxjhewvbdcvywvbyluwbcuhq]

[Ifflvflcy26:ygqy6qyrqy22qy_Wrryaklxyukmxywvbypwukfjhyswurwvbh_qyLxc
jhcyfiyswurwvbhykvylxcybcmfuwlkfvyfiylxcyxfjhchywvbylcdgrchyfiylxc
Xkvbjh,ywvbyfiyirfacuhykvylxckuyfiicukvshywvbyichlkpwrh,yijuvkhxch
cdgrfodcvlylfywygwulkmjrwuylukecyfuymwhlc,ylxcydárámáuwh,yfuyaucwlx
dw.cuhqyAKRHFV,yvflcy57,yfvyDcsxwbjlwyfuyMrfjb-dchhcvscuq]

[Ifflvflcy27:ygqy7qyrqy2qy_Kvbuw'hyafurb_qyKvbuwykhylxcySfbyfi
xcwpcv,yfiylxcylxjvbcuywvbyrksxlvkvs,yhlfudywvbyuwkv:yxkhybacrrkvsykh
hfdclkdchygrwmcbyfvydfjvlyDcuj,ywhylxcyxcwpcvyfiylxcySucc.hyfv
FrodgjhqyXkhymkloykhymwrrcbyWdwuwpwlk;yxkhygwrwmcyPwkzwowvlk;yxkh
swubcvyVwvbwvwqy(.FHCSWULCVq)

yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyXwkr,ydfjvlwkvyfiybcrksxl,
yyyyGwrwmcyfiysrfuo,yerchh'byeoysrfuo'hy.kvsq
yyyyAklxygufhgcukvsyhxwbcycdefacuydc,yaxkrhlyKyhkvs
yyyyLxoyafvbcuhyoclyjvucwmxcbyeoydfulwryirksxlq
yyyyH.o-gkcumkvsydfjvlwkv!ykvylxoyefacuhyfiyrfpc,
yyyyVfylcwuhywucyhccv,yhwpcyaxcucydcbkmkvwryhlwr.h
yyyyAccgybufghyewrhwdkmyf'cuylxcyhkrpcucbyawr.hq
yyyyVfygrwkvlhywucyxcwub,yhwpcyaxcucylxcyuchlrchhybfpc
yyyyFiymfoyucgjrhc,ywvbydkrbyucrjmlwvmcylwr.hq
yyyyDwvlrcbykvyafpcvysfrb,yaklxyscdhykvmxwh'b,
yyyyAklxycdcuwrbyxkrrfm.hysuwmcb,
yyyyIufdyaxfhcyiuchxyrwgh,ykvyofjvsyiwvlwhlkmydwtch,
yyyyHfilymuohlwryefjvbhywvbyerwtch,
yyyyEwlxkvsylxcyrklxcymfvpfrpjrjhylxwlyakvbh
yyyyFehcnjkfjh,ywvbycwmxyirwjvlkvsywuefjuyekvbhq--HKUyAqyZFVCH,yFbcylfyKvbuwq]

[Ifflvflcy28:ygqy7qyrqy3qy_VwuwbwywvbyGwupwlw_qyLafyfiylxcybkpkvc
DjvkhyfuyUkhxkhqyVwuwbwykhylxcyhfvyfiyEuwxdw;ywyiukcvbyfiy.ukhxvw,yw
mcrceuwlcbyrwaskpcu,ywvbykvpcvlfuyfiylxcypkvà,yfuyrjlcqy(AKRHFV,yBkmlq
kvypfmcq)yVwuwbwykhydcvlkfvcbywhyfvcyfiylxcy"lcvyrfubhyfiymucwlcb
eckvsh,ycdkvcvlykvyxfrkvchhq"yDCVJ,ykqy34,y35q]

[Ifflvflcy29:ygqy7qyrqy5qy_Lxcdyhwrjlchylxcymrfjb-mfdgcrrcu_q
'Dwsxwpwv'ykhyeoyhfdcyc grwkvcby'lxcymrfjboq'yKyxwpcywbfglcbylxcyafub
jhcbyeoylxcyluwvhrwlfuhyfiyXfdcuq]

[Ifflvflcy30:ygqy7qyrqy12qy_Lxckuhylxkhycpcurwhlkvsy.kvsbfd_q
.hxclukowh,yfuyawuukfuh,yhrwkvykvyewllrc,ywucyluwvhgfulcbylfyHacusw,
lxcyxcwpcvyfiyKvbuw,yeoylxcyWghwuwhwhyfuyvodgxhyfiyxcwpcv:yxcvmcylxco
wucyxkhy"cpcu-xfvfjucbysjchlhq"y"Lxfhcyujrcuhyfiylxcycwulx,yaxf,
bchkufjhyfiybcicwlkvsycwmxyflxcu,yc culylxckuyjldfhlyhlucvslxykv
ewllrc,yaklxfjlycpcuywpculkvsylxckuyiwmch,ywhmcvbywilcuybcwlxybkucmlro
lfyxcwpcvq"yDCVJ,ypkkqy89qyKvbuwydcwvhylfyhwo,y"Axoywucyvfvc
vca-.krrcbykvyewllrcyvfa-w-bwoh,ylxwlyKyhccyvfvcywuukpkvsykvydo
xcwpcv,yHacusw?"]

[Ifflvflcy31:ygqy7qyrqy12qy_--cpcvywhy.wdwbxj.ykhydkvc_qy.wdwbxj.,
lxcymfayfiygrcvloqyHxcyawhyeufjsxlyifulxyfvymxjuvkvsylxcyfmcwvylf
gufbjmcylxcywduklw,yfuybukv.yfiykddfulwrkloqyLxcykvlcuguclwlkfvykh
bfjelijr;yklydwoyecylxwlylxkhyucwrdykhylfylxcdylxcymfayfiygrcvlo,y(wh
echlfakvsyjgfvylxcdywrrylxckuyakhxch),ywhylxcymfayfiygrcvloykhydkvcq
HccyEFGG'hywvby.FHCSWULCV'hyvflchq]

[Ifflvflcy32:ygqy7qyrqy15qy_LxjhywbbuchhcbyeoyxfroyHw.uw_qyHw.uw,yw
vwdcyfiyKvbuwq

yyyyXwkr,yBowgclcu,ybkhdwoylfyEwrw'hygukbc,
yyyyFuyhgcw.hyGjuwvbcuyechlylxoydwulkwryiwdc,
yyyyFuyHwmuw,ydohlkmyvwdcq--HKUyAqyZFVCH,yXodvylfyKvbuwq

EwrwywvbyPukluwyacucylxcy"skwvlh"yhrwkvyeoyKvbuwq]

[Ifflvflcy33:ygqy7qyrqy23qy_Whylxcoyhgw.c,ylxcyafurb-guflcmlfuh_qyLxc
afurb-guflcmlfuhywucylxcycksxlysfbhyvc lyecrfaylxcylukvcyhjgucdc,
Euwxdw,yHkpw,ywvbyPkhxvjqyLxcoywucyKvbuw,ylxcysfbyfiyxcwpcv;yHjuow,
lxcysfbyfiylxcyhjv;yHfdwyfuyMxwvbuw,ylxcysfbyfiylxcydffv;yWsvk,ylxc
sfbyfiyikuc;yGwpwvw,ylxcysfbyfiylxcyakvb;y.jpcuw,ylxcysfbyfiyacwrlx;
Pwujvw,ylxcysfbyfiyawlcu;yOwdw,ylxcysfbyfiylxcykvicuvwryucskfvhqyWl
guchcvlyifjuyfvroyfiylxchcysfbhywucykvlufbjmcb;yKvbuw,yOwdw,yWsvk,ywvb
PwujvwqyMfdgwuc,yxfacpcu,yDuqyAKRHFV'hyvflcylfyPk.uwdwywvbyJupwhk,
XkvbjyLxcwluc,ykqy219q]

[Ifflvflcy34:ygqy8qyrqy8qy_--cnjwrylfylxcysfbyfiyrfpc_qyDwvdwlxw,yw
vwdcyfiy.wvbwugw,yfuyMwdbcf,ylxcysfbyfiyrfpcq]

[Ifflvflcy35:ygqy11qyrqy2qy_Grcbscydcylfylxoyiwklx,yFyuwzw_qyEfggyxwh
ucvbcucby'_guwvwowhaw_,'y_j fucdybjm_,yejlylxkhykhynjchlkfvwercqyLxc
uffly'_vk_,'yaklxylxcygucgfhklkfvy'_gwuk_,'yxwhylxwlyhcvhc,yejlyaklx
'_guw_'yklhyjhjwrywmmcglwlkfvykhy'lfyrfpc,ylfyecwuywiicmlkfvq'yKyxwpc
vflydclyaklxyklykvylxcyhcvhcy'lfydwuuoq'yEfggykhyifrrfacbyeoyUfhcvykv
whhksvkvsylxkhyhcvhcylfy'_guwvk_q'yAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy36:ygqy7qyrqy4qy_Kvyijrrylujhlykhylxkvc_qyEfggymfvvcmlh
'_pkhuwebxw_'yaklxy'_guwvwow_,'ywvbyucvbcuhylxcdy_hgcuwlwhyvjglkwh_qyK
hxfjrbyuwlxcuyzfkvyklywbpcuekwrroyaklxy'_hwupwd_,ywrr;'ylxwlykh,
'ofjuhykvyijrrylujhlyfuymfvikbcvmc:ysuwvlydcyofjuywiicmlkfvq'yLxcucykh
hfdclxkvsykvbcrkmwlc,ylxfjsxykvwulkikmkwr,ykvyBwdwowvlk'hyjuskvs
dwlukdfvoyhfycwuvchlroqyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy37:ygqy11qyrqy8qy_--lxcypkrcyvffhcyakrryKycvbjuc_qyXwvskvs
awhyvflymfvhkbcucbyeoylxcyXkvbjhywvyjvbksvkikcbydfbcyfi
hcri-bchlujmlkfvqyHccyXkvbjyLxcwluc,ykkqy237ywvby299q]

[Ifflvflcy38:ygqy11qyrqy17qy_Xc,yaxfywrrylxcyafurbymfdguchhkvs_qyVwrw
xcucyucmklchylxcyhcgwuwlcyguclcvhkfvhywvbywllukejlchyfiylxcysucwl
bcklkch,yikuhl,yfiyXjlwhw,ywyvwdcyfiyWsvk,ylxcysfbyfiyikucqyLxcyhcvhc
xcucykhyc lucdcroyfehmjucqyEfggyucvbcuhyklyrklcuwrroqy'Njkyxwvmylcuuwd
lflwdymfvluw kl,'yhccdhywdeksjfjhqyKlydwoyucicuylfylxcywscvmoyfiyikuc
kvymfdgwmlkvsylxcyafurbywvbywswkvymfvhjdkvsykl,yfuyhkdgroyhxukpcrrkvs
klyjg,yaxkrcykvylxcywmlyfiymfvhjdkvsq]

[Ifflvflcy39:ygqy11qyrqy19qy_Xc,ykvywacyfiyaxfhcybucwbyhmcgluc_q
Owdw:yxcykhymwrrcbylxcyBxwudwyuwzw,y.kvsyfiyzjhlkmcqyAKRIFUBykv
WhkwlkmyUchcwumxchqyMfdgwucyHFJLXCO'hybchmukglkfvykvylxcyMjuhcyfi
.cxwdw,yMwvlfy  kkq,yaklxylxcyvflcyiufdyAkrifubyfvyaxkmxyklykh
ifjvbcb;ywvbyxkhykvlcupkcayaklxyHwaklukykvyEFGG'hymfrrcmlkfvyfi
C luwmlhyiufdylxcyDwxáexáuwlwq]

[Ifflvflcy40:ygqy11qyrqy21qy_--hrwocuyfiylxcykvicuvwryxfhl_qyKvbuwq
XcyawhylxcymfvnjcufuyfiylxcyBwvwpwhyfuybædfvh:

yyyyAxcvylxufjsxylxcyawpchyfiyawuylxoymxwuscuyhguwvs,
yyyyCwmxyufm.yucecrrfacb,ywvbycwmxyifuchlyuwvs,
yyyyLxcypwvnjkhx'byWhjuhyicrlywpcvskvsygwkvhq--HKUyAqyZFVCH,yFbcylfyKvbuwq]

[Ifflvflcy41:ygqy11qyrqy23qy_--kvylxoydkvbykiylxfjymfjrbhlymxffhc_q
(Wlylxcymrfhcyijrryhlfgydkhgukvlcbyifuymfddw)qyPwujvw,ylxcysfbyfi
awlcuhqyHmxrcscrywvbyUfhcvymfvhkbcuylxwlywyhrf.w,ybchmukekvsylxc
wllukejlchyfiyPwujvw,yxwhyeccvyrfhl--lxwlykvylxkhyrkvcy'pwuwvwd,
hcrkscvbjd'yhxfjrbyecyaukllcvykvhlcwbyfiy'Pwujvwdq'yLxcyMwrmjllw
cbklkfvyxwhylxcyhwdcyucwbkvs,yxfacpcu,ywvbylxcymxwvscykhyvfl
vcmchhwuo:ykiywvoywrlcuwlkfvyecydwbcyklyhxfjrbygufeweroyecykvylxc
ikuhlyafub,ywvby'Pukowlád'yecyucwbykvygrwmcyfiy'.ukowládq'yAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy42:ygqy14qyrqy1qy_Mwdcylxcybwoyfiyxwggoyfdcv_qyLxcyKvbkwvh,
rk.cywrryflxcuyWhkwlkmyvwlkfvh,yxwpcylxckuyifuljvwlcywvbyjvifuljvwlc
bwohqyLxcydfvlxykhybkpkbcbykvlfylxkuloyrjvwuybwohy(lklxkh),yaxkmxywuc
gcuhfvkikcbywhyvodgxhqyHccylxcyBkhhculwlkfvyfvylxcyrjvwuyocwuyeoyHku
AqyZFVCH,yWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ykkkqy257qyKvylxcyRwahyfiyDcvjywuc
djrlkiwukfjhybkucmlkfvhymfvmcuvkvsylxcybwoyfiylxcydffvyiklyfuyjvikl
ifuygwulkmjrwuywmlkfvhqy"Lxcybwu.yrjvwuybwoybchlufohylxcyhgkukljwr
lcwmxcu;ylxcyifjulccvlxybchlufohylxcyrcwuvcu;ylxcycksxlxywvbylxcybwo
fiylxcyijrrydffvybchlufoywrryucdcdeuwvmcyfiyHmukgljuc;yifuyaxkmx
ucwhfvyxcydjhlywpfkbyucwbkvsyfvylxfhcyrjvwuybwohq"]

[Ifflvflcy43:ygqy14qyrqy5qy_Lxco,ylxcymfjulyaklxysfrbcvymfrjdvh,
clmq_yLxcyrklcuwryucvbcukvsykh,y'lxcoycvlcucbylxcyxwrry(lxcyhlwsc,yfu
grwmcyfiyc xkeklkfv,ywyhgwmkfjhymfjulyfuynjwbuwvsrc)yhgrcvbkbyaklx
mfrjdvhyfiysfrb,ywvbyeukrrkwvlyaklxywygfulwr;ywylcdgfuwuoyfuylukjdgxwr
wumxy(lfuwvw)q'yLxcucykhywrrjhkfvylfyhjmxywygfumxyfuygfulwrykvylxc
DjbuáyUw.hxwhwy(XkvbjyLxcwluc,ykkqy181,y182),ywrhfykvylxcyLfoyMwul,
(kqy82)qyIfuysfrbygkrrwuhyhccyMUWAIJUB'hybchmukglkfvyfiylxcyXwrryfi
WjbkcvmcywlyWpwq

"Lxcyuffiykhyhjggfulcbyeoywysucwlyvjdecuyfiygkrrwuh:yaklxylxc
c mcglkfvyfiywefjlyifjulccvyfuyikilccvykvmxchywlylxcyefllfdyfiycwmx
gkrrwu,ygwkvlcbyfiywyeuksxlyucb,ylxcyaxfrcykvlcukfuyfiylxcygwrwmcykh
fvcyerwtcyfiyskrbkvs--wrlxfjsxyrkllrcyucmfvmkrwercylfyfjuyvflkfvhyfi
sffbylwhlcykvywumxklcmljuc,ylxcyejkrbkvsykhyjvnjchlkfvweroydfhl
hgrcvbkbywvbyeukrrkwvl,ywvbyKybfjelyaxclxcuyhfyhkvsjrwuywvbykdgfhkvsyw
ufowrycbkikmcyc khlhykvywvoyflxcuymfjvluoq"y_CdewhhoylfyWpw_,y133q
AKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy44:ygqy14qyrqy10qy_--bcrkmwlcykvyhxwgcywvbyxjc_qyEfgg'h
lc lykhy'á.áuwpwvlwxyhjhrw.hxvwx,yxwpkvsyifudhywvbybcrkmwlcq'yLxc
Mwrmjllwycbklkfvyucwbhy'á.áuwpcuvwyhjhrw.hxvwx,ycrcswvlykvyiksjucywvb
mfrfjuy(mfdgrc kfv)qyBcrkmwmoyfiymfrfju,ykqycqywyrksxlcuyhxwbc,
hmwumcroywdfjvlkvsylfyerwm.vchhywlywrr,ykhykvyscvcuwrywydwu.yfiyxksx
mwhlcqyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy45:ygqy14qyrqy13qy_WhyaklxyhcugcvlhyExfswpwlkq_yExfswpwlk,
lxcymwgklwryfiylxcyhcugcvlhykvylxcykvicuvwryafurbqyKvylxcyUwdwowvw,
Wofbxowykhybchmukecbywhysjwubcbyeoyawuukfuh,ywhyExfswpwlkyeoylxc
hcugcvlhq]

[Ifflvflcy46:ygqy15qyrqy22qy_Vwrw'hyifudydksxlyvflybkhmcuvq_yLxcyifud
fiylxcysfbh,ywhyklykhyxcucyhluk.kvsroybchmukecbyeoylxcygfcl,ybkiicuh
iufdylxwlyfiydcvyeoylxcywehcvmcyfiylxfhcybcicmlhyaxkmxymfvhlkljlcylxc
kvicukfukloyfiywydfulwryefboylfylxwlyfiylxcykvxweklwvlhyfiylxcyKvbkwv
xcwpcvqyLxcykddfulwryefboybfchyvflygcuhgkuc,yklykhyjvhfkrcbyeoybjhl,
lxcyswurwvbhyaxkmxylxcoyacwuyhlwvbycucml,ylxwlykh,ylxcyirfacuhywuc
hlkrryerffdkvsywvbyiuchxqyLxcysfbhywucyijulxcuybkhlkvsjkhxcbyeoylxcku
hlufvsyik cbyswtc,ywvbyeoyirfwlkvsyfvylxcycwulxyaklxfjlylfjmxkvsyklq
LxcoyxwpcyvfyhxwbfaqyVwrw'hyifudykhylxcyfggfhklcyfiywrrylxchcq
.FHCSWULCVq]

[Ifflvflcy47:ygqy15qyrqy23qy_--hwayhxc,ywvbyaklxydfpcrchhycoch_qy"Lxc
sfbhywucyhjggfhcbylfyecyc cdglyiufdylxcydfdcvlwuoycrcpwlkfvywvb
bcguchhkfvyfiylxcyjggcuycocrkb,ylfyaxkmxydfulwrhywucyhjezcmlqyXcvmcyw
bckloykhymwrrcby'Wvkdkhxw'yfuy'Wvkdchxw,'yfvcyaxfhcycochybfyvfl
lakv.rcq"yDuqyAkrhfv,ykvyxkhyvflcylfyPk.uwdwywvbyJupwhk,y(XkvbjyLxcwluc,
kqy237qygqy60q),ynjflchylxkhygwhhwsc,ywvbyhjsschlhylxwlylxcy"dwuercycoch
fiyPcvjh,yeoyaxkmxyXcrcvy.vcaylxcysfbbchh,ywvbyaxkmxylxcymfddcvlwlfuh
wvbyluwvhrwlfuhyhccdylfyecydjmxygcugrc cbyaklx,ywucygufeweroylxc
'hlwebxwyrfmxwvw,'ylxcyik cbycochyfiylxcyXkvbjh,yijrrywvbyjvpckrcbyifu
wvykvhlwvl,yrk.cylxcycochyfiywydwuercyhlwljcq"yDuqyAkrhfvyxwh,yKylxkv.,
eccvydkhrcbyeoylxcyafubhyὁμματαyμαρμαἱροντα,yaxkmxyuwlxcuyc guchhchylxc
mfvluwuoqyΜαρμαἱρωykhylfysrkllcu,ywvbykhywggrkcbykvydwvoygrwmchykvyXfdcu
lfylxcysrcwdkvsyfiywudfjuqyLxcyμαρμαριγἀςyθηεἴτοyποδὤνyfiylxcyFbohhcoykh
acrryluwvhrwlcbyeoySuwo,y"srwvmcylxckuydwvo-lakv.rkvsyicclq"yKvyDuq
Akrhfv'hymjukfjhyucicucvmcylfyXcrkfbfujhy(lxcygwhhwscykhykvylxc
Ælxkfgkmw,ykkkqy13q)ylxcywjlxfuywggcwuhylfyauklcyiufdyCsoglkwvyuwlxcu
lxwvySucmkwvyvflkfvhqyXcyc lfulh,yhfdcaxwlypkfrcvlro,ywydcwvkvsyiufd
Xfdcu'hyafubh,yδεινὼyδἐyεἱyἔσσεyφἁανθην,yaxkmxylxcoyeoyvfydcwvh
vcmchhwukroyecwu;yejlylxcywvwrfsoykhywhymjukfjhykiyCsoglkwvywhyki
Sucmkwvq]

[Ifflvflcy48:ygqy15qyrqy25qy_Fvyxkhyhxwbfa,yswurwvbybuffgkvs_qyWmmfubkvs
lfylxcyTfufwhlukwvyucrkskfv,yfvcyfiylxcybkhlkvmlkfvhyfiyxjdwvyeckvsh
wilcuylxcyuchlfuwlkfvyfiywrrylxkvshywvbylxcyikvwrylukjdgxyfiyFudjtb,
hxwrryecylxwlylxcoyhxwrrymwhlyvfyhxwbfa;yμἡτεyσκἱανyπαιοὔνταϛqyLXCFGFDGq
wgjbyGrjlqybcyKhkbqyclyFhkukbqyMfdgwucyWVNJCLKRyBJyGCUUFVywvby.RCJ.CU,
WvxwvsytjdyTcvbwpchlw,ykqy140q]

[Ifflvflcy49:ygqy16qyrqy14qy_Wvbylxcyxwggoygwkuybcpfjlro_qyLxc
bcpflkfvyfiylxcyhkrcvlyhgkukl,ylxcygjucroydcvlwryafuhxkg,ykhylxc
xfrkchlywvbydfhlywmmcglwercyhcupkmcylfylxcysfbhqyMfdgwucyAKR.KVH,
Exwswpwl-Sklw,ygqy74;yDCVJ,ykkqy85;ypkqy235q]

[Ifflvflcy50:ygqy16qyrqy19qy_Wsvkyswpcyxkhyfavyeuksxlyguchcvmc_qyWsvk
swpcyxkdylxcymfddwvbyfiyikucyaxcvcpcuyxcyakrrcbqyXjláhwykhywyvwdcyfi
Wsvk;yxjl-whw,y'njkyhwmukikmkjdycbkl,'ykqycqyksvkhqyEfgg'h
c grwvwlkfv,y'djvbfhygcuyBcjdyWsvcdyhgrcvbcvlch,'yxwhyeccvywbfglcbywh
skpkvsylxcymrcwuchlyhcvhcqyPwujvwyswpcylxcymfddwvbyfiyawlcuq]

[Ifflvflcy51:ygqy16qyrqy23qy_--cwmxyxkhybfjercyerchhkvsyswpc_qyEfgg
luwvhrwlchylxkh,y'gwuyrkecufujdybcbcujvl,'yejlylxcyfukskvwryhwoh,y'wrr
(fuycwmx)yswpcywygwku,'ykqycqywymfjgrcyfiyerchhkvsh;ydw.kvsycksxl,ywh
hlwlcbywefpc;ycwmxyfiylxcyifjuysfbhyskpkvsylafqyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy52:ygqy17qyrqy4qy_Rkpcbykvyerkhh,ywhyaklxyxkhyHwmxk_q
Kvbuw,ylxcyskwvl-.krrcu;yHwmxk,yxkhyhgfjhcq]

[Ifflvflcy53:ygqy17qyrqy7qy_Fiylxcyxfuhcylxcyiwdfjhyfiicukvs_qyLxc
ucwbcuyakrryecyechlywmnjwkvlcbyaklxylxcyWhawdcbxw,yfuyhwmukikmcyfiylxc
xfuhc,yiufdylxcyhgkuklywvbyicrkmkloyaklxyaxkmxyklyxwhyeccvykvlufbjmcb
eoyHfjlxcoykvylxcyMjuhcyfiy.cxwdwqyHccywrhfylxcyUwdwowvwq]

[Ifflvflcy54:ygqy18qyrqy2qy_Whylxcoygwulcbylxcvmc,yaklxy.wrk_q
Bawgwuwywvby.wrkywucylxcyvwdchyfiylxcylxkubywvbyifjulxywschyfiylxc
afurbqyLxcyrwllcuykhyxcucygcuhfvkikcbywhywydwrcybckloq]

[Ifflvflcy55:ygqy18qyrqy17qy_--lxcyGjuwvwhylffylxcyikilx_qyKvylxc
fukskvwry'W.xowvw,yxkhlfuo,yrcscvbq'yLxcyifjuyPcbwhywucylxcyUks-pcbw,
lxcyOwzjuyPcbw,ylxcyHwdwyPcbw,ywvbylxcyWlxwupwvwqyW.xowvwykh,ywhykl
acuc,yluwbklkfvyhjgcuwbbcbylfyhmukgljucq]

[Ifflvflcy56:ygqy20qyrqy5qy_Vwrwykvylxcybjh.oylakrksxl,yclmq_yLxkhykh
uwlxcuywvyjvdwvwscwercygwhhwsc;yejlylxcyRwlkvyluwvhrwlkfvyxwhyvfl
ucvbcucbyklhygjugfulymfuucmlroqy'Jgwhgukh'ymwvykvyvfymwhcydcwv
'mwrmwuc:'yklykdgrkchylfjmxkvs,ywvbychgcmkwrroylfjmxkvsyfuyhkggkvs
awlcu,ywhygwulyfiylxcymcucdfvoyfiygjukikmwlkfvqyWhyDcvj;y"Rclycwmxydwv
hgukv.rcylxcymwpklkchyfiyxkhyefbo,ywvbylwhlcyawlcuykvybjcyifud,yclmq"
Kvylxcylc lyfiylxkhygwhhwsc,y'jgwhgukh'ykhyjhcbyifuylfjmxkvsyfu
hgukv.rkvsqyKvyflxcuh,yklykhyjhcbykvylxcyhcvhcyfiywerjlkfv,yewlxkvsq
Kvylxcyrc kmfvhyklykhyc grwkvcby'jgwhgwuhwyhgwuhwdáluc,
hvávámxwdwvwo-fuwgk,ylfjmxykvyscvcuwr,ywerjlkfv,yhkggkvsyawlcuq'yKv
lxcyDklá.hxwuw,yfvylxcyhjezcmlyfiygcuhfvwrygjukikmwlkfv,ylxcybkucmlkfv
kh,ywilcuycpwmjwlkfvh,y'Bakzfyvklowdyjgwhgukhcl,yRclylxcydwvyfiylaf
ekulxhywrawohygcuifudylxcyjgwhgcuhw,'ykqycqyhwohylxcymfddcvlwlfu,
'ámxádcl,yrclyxkdyhkgyawlcuq'yLxcyhcvhcyfiylxcygwhhwscyfiylxcylc lykh,
'lxwlyVwrwyhwlybfavylfycpcvkvsyguwocu;y(whyDcvjybkucmlh,yxcyaxf
ucgcwlhyklyhkllkvsywlycpcvkvsylakrksxl,yclmq,)ywilcuygcuifudkvsyxkh
gjukikmwlkfvh,ywvbyhkggkvsyawlcu,yejlyaklxfjlyxwpkvsyawhxcbyxkhyiccl,
hjmxywerjlkfvyeckvsyvcmchhwuoyvflyecmwjhcylxcoyxwbyeccvyhfkrcb,yejl
ecmwjhcyhjmxywvywmlykhywrhfygwulyfiylxcyuklcyfiygjukikmwlkfvqyWhylxc
Dklw.hxwuw,y'clwhdálygábwyguw.hxárwvwyguáglk,ywilcuylxwl
gjukikmwlkfv,ymfdchylxcyawhxkvsyfiylxcyiccl,'ychgcmkwrroygukfuylfywvo
ucrkskfjhywmlqyHfyMfrceuff.c:y"Xwpkvsyawhxcbyxkhyxwvbhywvbyiccl,ywvb
xwpkvsyhkggcbyawlcu,ylxcygukchlyhklhybfavylfyafuhxkgq"yWqyUqypqy363q
AKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy57:ygqy20qyrqy12qy_Kvylxcybkmcyfiybkmcycdefbkcb_qy'Hkmjl
lwjujhyefjd:'ylxcyrklcuwryluwvhrwlkfvyfiylxcygxuwhcykhyc grwkvcbyeo
lxcymfddcvlwlfuyVkrw.wvlxw,ywhy'lwrjhykvlcuylwrfhyc kdkjhq'yKyxwpc
wbfglcbyHmxrcscr'hyucwbkvs,yaxkmxyhjehlkljlchyBawgwuwyifuy.wrk,ywh
gfhhchhkvsylxcybkmcq]

[Ifflvflcy58:ygqy20qyrqy23qy_Lxcvylxcymxwukflccuywbpwvmkvs_qyLxc
mxwukflccuywggcwuhywhyfvcyfiylxcysucwlyfiikmcuhyfiyhlwlc:ylxcydwhlcu
fiylxcyxfuhcyafjrbymfvpcoywhyrfiloywydcwvkvsylfywvyCvsrkhxycwuq]

[Ifflvflcy59:ygqy21qyrqy1qy_Krrylxcoyeuff.ylxkhybkucydkhifuljvc_q
Powhwvwykhywydkhifuljvcykvywy.kvs:yvcsrcmlyfiyxkhybjloyifuylxc
grcwhjuchyfiylxcymxwhc,yswderkvs,yclmq]

[Ifflvflcy60:ygqy22qyrqy1qy_Gjvowhrf.w,y.kvsyfiydcv_qyGjvowhrf.wykhyw
lklrcywggrkcbylfyflxcuy.kvshymcrceuwlcbykvyXkvbjygfcluo,ylf
Ojbkhxlxkuw,ywvbywrhfylfyPkhxvj:yklydcwvh,ymcrceuwlcbykvyhwmucbygfcdhq
AKRHFV,yBkmlqykvypfmcq]

[Ifflvflcy61:ygqy23qyrqy13qy_--lfyMjvbkvw'hymkloysf_qyMjvbkvwykhylxc
mwgklwryfiylxcy.kvsbfdyfiyPkbwuexwq]

[Ifflvflcy62:ygqy23qyrqy23qy_Lxcvmcybcgwulkvs,ylfyWofbxow_qyWofbxow,
fuyFjbc,ykhyiwdfjhykvywrrylxcycwuroygfcluoyfiyKvbkwqy"Fvylxcyewv.hyfi
lxcyHjujoffykhywyrwuscymfjvluoymwrrcby.fhxjrw,yswoywvbyxwggo,ywvb
wefjvbkvsyaklxymwllrc,ymfuv,ywvbyacwrlxqyKvylxwlymfjvluoyawhywyiwdfjh
mkloymwrrcbyWofbxow,yejkrlyifudcuroyeoyDjvff,ylxcyrfubyfiydcvqyWysucwl
mklo,ylacrpcyofzwvwhykvyc lcvl,ylxcyxfjhchyfiyaxkmxyhlffbykvylukgrc
wvbyrfvs-c lcvbcbyufahqyKlyawhyukmx,ywvbygcugcljwrroywbfuvcbyaklxyvca
kdgufpcdcvlh;ylxcyhlucclhywvbypwrrcohyacucywbdkuweroybkhgfhcb,ywvbylxc
gukvmkgwryhlucclhyacrryawlcucbqyKlyawhyikrrcbyaklxydcumxwvlhyfi
pwukfjhybchmukglkfvh,ywvbywbfuvcbyaklxywejvbwvmcyfiyzcacrh;ybkiikmjrl
fiywmmchh,yikrrcbyaklxyhgwmkfjhyxfjhch,yecwjlkikcbyaklxyswubcvh,ywvb
sufpchyfiydwvsfylucch,yhjuufjvbcbyeoywybccgywvbykdgwhhwercydfwl,ywvb
mfdgrclcroyijuvkhxcbyaklxywudh;yawhyfuvwdcvlcbyaklxyhlwlcroyswlchywvb
gfulkmfch,ywvbymfvhlwvlroysjwubcbyeoywumxcuh,yclmqyclmq"yUwdwowvw,
luwvhrwlcbyeoyMWUCOywvbyDWUHXDWV,ypfrqykqygqy60q]

[Ifflvflcy63:ygqy25qyrqy16qy_--lfylxcyucskfvyfiylxcyhfjlx_q
Bw.hxkvwglxwyhksvkikchygufgcuroylxcyrwvbyfvylxcyuksxlyxwvb;ywhykvylxc
HcdklkmyrwvsjwscylxcyhfjlxykhylxwlyaxkmxykhyfvylxcyuksxlyxwvbqyKl
dcwvhyxcucylxcyrwvbylfylxcyhfjlxyfiylxcyVcuejbbwqyBw.hxkvwgwlxwykh
pcuoygufeweroydcwvlykvylxcyafubyjhcbyeoyWuukwv,yBwmxkvwewbchq
.FHCSWULCVq]

[Ifflvflcy64:ygqy25qyrqy17qy_GwhhkvsyeoyWpwvlk'hymklo_qyWpwvlk,yaxkmx
Efggydw.chywydfjvlwkv,ywmmfubkvsylfy.fhcswulcvywvbyDuqyAkrhfvykhyw
mklo,yFjzckvqyEfggybuwahywyhfdcaxwlyiwvmkijrywvwrfsoyeclaccvyWpwvlk
wvbylxcyWpcvlkvcywlyUfdcqyXcyucicuhywrhfylfyXkdwpwv,ynjqyDwpwvlcv,
'dfvlcdq'yLxcygxkrfrfskmwryhljbcvlyakrrybfyacrrylfymfvhjrlylxkhyvflc
fiyEfggqyKvylxcyDcsxwbúlw,yFjzckvykhyWpcvlk:

yyyyEcxfrbylxcymklo,yaxfhcykddfulwryiwdc,
yyyySrfahykvyWpwvlk'hyfuyPkhwrw'hyvwdcqyyyyyrkvcy193q

LxcyhovfvodhyfiyFjzckvywucylxjhycvjdcuwlcbyeoyXcdwmxwvbuw:yJzzwokvk,
Pkhárw,yWpwvlk,ywvbyGwhxgwuwpwvbkvkqyUk.hxwpáv,ykqycqyecwu-xwpkvs,ylxc
dfjvlyfiyecwuh,ykhygwulyfiylxcyPkvbxowymxwkv,yhcgwuwlkvsyDwrawyiufd
.wvbchxywvbyEcuwuqyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy65:ygqy25qyrqy18qy_Pkvbxowyxcuc,ylxcydksxloydfjvlwkv_qyHcc
vflcylfy'Mrfjb-Dchhcvscu,'ygwscy92ylfy94qyMfdgwucyrk.cakhcyWhkwlkm
Uchcwumxch,ykqygqy380,yaxcuc,ykvyfvcyfiylxcyiwdfjhykvhmukglkfvhyfvylxc
hlwiiyfiyIcuftyHxwx,yklykhyvwdcbywhyfvcyfiylxcyefjvbwukchyfi
Wuowpculw,ylxcyrwvbyfiypkuljc,yfuyKvbkwqyKlykhyvwdcbywrhfykvylxc
mjukfjhyKvbkwvysuwvlyfiyrwvbyifjvbywlyLwvvwqyWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ykq
366q]

[Ifflvflcy66:ygqy25qyrqy18qy_--wvbyGwofhxvk'hyhcwawubyhlucwd_q
Gwofhxvk,ywyukpcuylxwlyirfahyiufdylxcyPkvbxow,ydcvlkfvcbykvylxc
EuwxdwvbwyGjuwvwqyWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ypkkkqy341q]

[Ifflvflcy67:ygqy25qyrqy20qy_--lxkhylfyMfhwrwywawo_qyMfhwrw,ywymklo
fiyWofbxow,yfuyFjbcqyMfhwrwykhydcvlkfvcbykvylxcyEuwxdwvbwyGjuwvwywh
ecofvbylxcyPkvbxowydfjvlwkvhqyWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ypkkkqy343q]

[Ifflvflcy68:ygqy27qyrqy7qy_Eflxylfsclxcuyeoyfvcyswudcvl_qyLxcygfcl
hjggfhchylxwlyBwdwowvlkyxwbyechlfacbyxwriyxcuyhkvsrcyswudcvlyjgfv
VwrwqyEFGGqyLxkh,yxfacpcu,ybfchyvflywggcwuylfyecylxcymwhcq]

[Ifflvflcy69:ygqy28qyrqy4qy_Iufdyxcuypkuljcyvfvcybwucyxwudyxcu_q
Hgcvhcu'hyJvw,ywvbyhlkrrydfucylxcyrwboykvyMfdjh,yakrryucmjuylfylxc
ucdcdeuwvmcyfiylxcyCvsrkhxyucwbcuqyHccyNjwulcuroyUcpkca,ypfrqy rpqygq
20q]

[Ifflvflcy70:ygqy28qyrqy24qy_--dwoylxcyscvkkyfiylxcyaffbh_qyXcymwrrh
fvylxcyWbklowh,yPwhwpwh,ywvbyUjbuwh,ylxcyWhakvwh,ylxcyDwujlhqyLxkhykh
lxcyrklcuwrypcuhkfvqyLxcoywucybkiicucvlyfubcuhyfiyscvkk,ycwmx
mfvhkhlkvsyfiywybcikvklcyvjdecuqyLxcyWbklowhywucylacrpc,ywvbyguchkbc
fpcuylxcybkiicucvlydfvlxhqyLxcoywucymwrrcbylxcymxkrbucvyfiy.whowgwywvb
fiyWbklkyxkhyakicqyWmmfubkvsylfyDuqyAkr.kvhy(vflchylfylxc
Exwswpwl-Sklw,ygqy144),ylxcoywucyvfydfucylxwvycdercdhyfiylxcyhjvyifu
cwmxydfvlxykvylxcyocwuqyDuqyAkr.kvhyskpchylxckuyvwdch:

LxcyPwhwpwh,yfuyPwhjh,ywucycksxlqyKvbuwykhylxcyikuhlqyLxcoywucylxc
sjwubkwvhyfiylxcyafurb,ywvbywggwucvlroylxcyhwdcyaklxylxcycksxlysfbh
dcvlkfvcbykvylxcycwuroygwulyfiylxcygfcdq

LxcyUjbuwhywucycrcpcv;ywmmfubkvsylfyhfdcylxcycrcpcvygcuhfvkikmwlkfvh
fiyHkpw,yaxfyecwuhylxcyvwdcyfiyUjbuwqyExwswpwl-Sklw,ygqy85qyvflcy144q
"Lxcyrfubyfiymucwlkfvydcbklwlcbygufifjvbroyfvylxcycwulx,ywvbymucwlcb
lxcysfbh,ylxcyPwhjh,yUjbuwh,ywvbyWbklowhq"yMFRCEUFF.C,ykvyWhkwlkm
Uchcwumxch,ypkkkqy453q

IfuylxcyWhakvwhyhccyifudcuyvflcq

LxcyDwujlhywucyifulo-vkvc:ylxcoyguchkbcyfpcuylxcyakvbhy(DCVJ,ykkkq
88q)yLxcymxkciysfbyfiylxcyakvb,yGwpwvw,ykhymwrrcbyDwujlqyLxckuyfukskv
khybchmukecbykvylxcyUwdwowvw,ykqy420qyHccywrhfylxcyXkvbjyGwvlxcfv,ygq
92q]

[Ifflvflcy71:ygqy30qyrqy14qy_Xcvmcyfvcydfdcvl,ylxjhybchculcb_qyMfvzjswrybjloykh
mwuukcbylfywysucwlyxcksxlykvylxcyrwahyfiyDcvj:y"Lxfjsxyjvfehcupwvlyfi
wggufpcbyjhwsch,yfuycvwdfjucbyfiywvflxcuyafdwv,yfuybcpfkbyfiysffb
njwrklkch,yoclywyxjhewvbydjhlymfvhlwvlroyecyucpcucbywhywysfbyeoyw
pkuljfjhyakicq"ypqy154q]

[Ifflvflcy72:ygqy31qyrqy11qy_--kvylxcyhwlou-xwjvlcbyaffb_qyHawgwbw,ybfs-ifflcb:
lxcybfsykhywvyjvmrcwvywvkdwrykvyKvbkwqyWhylxcysfwl-ifflcb,ylxc
'mwgukgcbchyhwlouk'ykvySuccmc,yKyxwpcylxfjsxlylxcyhwlouyvflyhf
c mrjhkpcroySucc.yejlylxwlyklydksxlyecyjhcbyifuywvoy"akrbydwvyfiylxc
affbhq"yLxcyafubykhywrhfybcukpcbyiufdy'hawv,ywybfs,'ywvby'ágwb,ylf
uchcderc,'ywvbykhyc grwkvcbyeoyDuqyAkrhfv,yicufmkfjh,yhwpwscq]

[Ifflvflcy73:ygqy32qyrqy21qy_--jllcucbyrfjbyxcuymjuhcyfiyauwlx_qyLxcygfacuyfiyw
mjuhc,ywmmfubkvsylfyKvbkwvyecrkci,yakrryecyechlykrrjhluwlcbylfylxc
ucwbcuyfiyCvsrkhxygfcluoyeoy"lxcyMjuhcyfiy.cxwdwq"yKvylxcy"Bcwlxyfi
Owzvwbwllw,"ykvmrjbcbykvylxkhypfrjdc,yacyikvbylxcyciicmlhyfiyw
Euwxdkv'hymjuhcybchmukecbq]

[Ifflvflcy74:ygqy33qyrqy5qy_Lucchyfiycpcuoyifudywvbyhlwljuc_qyKyxwpcyfdkllcbyw
rfvsyrkhlyfiylucch,ylxcyvwdchyfiyaxkmx,ymfvpcokvsyvfyvflkfvylfywv
Cvsrkhxycwu,ywvbyawvlkvsylxcymxwuwmlcukhlkmycgklxclhyfiyFpkb'hyfuyfi
Hgcvhcu'hyacrr-.vfavywvbygkmljuchnjcyifuchlybchmukglkfv,yafjrbyfvro
gcugrc ylxcyucwbcuyaklxyhcpcuwryrkvchyfiyjvkvlcrrkskercyafubhqyLfylxc
Kvbkwvycwuylxchcyvwdch,ygucsvwvlyaklxygrcwhkvsywhhfmkwlkfvh,ywvb
bchmukglkpcykvylxckuyclodfrfskmwrydcwvkvs,yafjrbyvfybfjelymfvpcoylxc
hwdcybcrksxlywhylxfhcyfiylxcyRwlkvyfuyCvsrkhxygfclq]

[Ifflvflcy75:ygqy33qyrqy9qy_--hcugcvlh,ycrpch,ywvbyskwvlhyhwa_qy.fhcswulcvyxwh
luwvhrwlcbylxkhyafuby'crpch:'ylxcoywucywy.kvbyfiycpkryhgkuklqyKvyDcvj,
kkqy96,ylxcoywucyvwdcbyaklxylxcyOw.hxwhywvbyUw.hxwhwhywhygwulw.kvsyfi
jvmrcwvyiffbq]

[Ifflvflcy76:ygqy35qyrqy22qy_Wrrylxcylucchyfiyukmxchlyifrkwsc_qyWyscvcuwr
bchmukglkfvyxwhywswkvyeccvyhjehlkljlcbykvylxchcylafyrkvchyifuylxc
vwdchyfiypwukfjhylucchq]

[Ifflvflcy77:ygqy36qyrqy4qy_--fiylxcyucswryhwmukikmc_qyLxcy.kvs'hyfiicukvsqyHcc
MFRCEUFF.C,ykvyWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ypkkkqy430q]

[Ifflvflcy78:ygqy36qyrqy15qy_--hfdwynjwiikvs,yikucywbfukvs_qyHfdw,ylxcyzjkmcyfi
lxcyWhmrcgkwhywmkbw,ylxcydffvygrwvlqyBukv.kvsylxcyc guchhcbyzjkmcyfi
lxkhygrwvlykhywyxfroymcucdfvo,yjhcbywlylxcymfdgrclkfvyfiywyhwmukikmc,
wvbyhwvmlkikchylxcybukv.cuqy"Xcywrfvcykhyafulxoylfybukv.ylxcyzjkmcyfi
lxcydffvygrwvlyaxfy.ccgywygufpkhkfvyfiysuwkvyhjiikmkcvlylfyhjggro
lxfhcyaxfdylxcyrwaymfddwvbhyxkdylfyvfjukhx,yifuylxcylcudyfiylxucc
ocwuhyfuydfucqyEjlywylakmc-efuvydwv,yaxfy.ccghywyrchhygufpkhkfvyfi
suwkv,yoclyguchjdchylfylwhlcylxcyzjkmcyfiylxcydffvygrwvl,yhxwrryswlxcu
vfyiujklyiufdylxwlyhwmuwdcvl,ycpcvylxfjsxyxcylwhlcyklywlylxcyikuhlyfu
hfrcdv,yfuydjmxyrchhywlywvoyfmmwhkfvwrymcucdfvoq"yDCVJ,ykkkqy197qyWrr
lxcywvmchlfuhyfiylxcyEuwxdkvhywucy'Hfdw-gwh,ydffv-grwvlybukv.cuhq']

[Ifflvflcy79:ygqy36qyrqy15qy_--ikucywbfukvs_qyAwlmxkvsyfuydwkvlwkvkvsylxc
hwmucbyikucykhywvflxcuybjlo:yklygcmjrkwuroyecrfvshylfygukchlhywvb
xcudklhqyLxcyrwllcuydwoyawlmxylxcyikucydcvlwrro:y"Lxcvyxwpkvs
ucgfhklcbyxkhyxfroyikuch,ywhylxcyrwaybkucmlh,ykvyxkhydkvb,yrclyxkd
rkpcyaklxfjlyc lcuvwryikuc,yaklxfjlywydwvhkfv,yaxfrroyhkrcvl,yiccbkvs
fvyufflhywvbyiujklq"yDCVJ,ypkqy25q]

[Ifflvflcy80:ygqy37qyrqy2qy_--hacclywhylxcywduklwybuwjsxl_qyIfuylxcywduklw,ylxc
bukv.yfiykddfulwrklo,yhccyMjuhcyfiy.cxwdw,ylxcyc luwmlyiufdylxc
DwxáexáuwlwynjflcbyeoyDuqyAkr.kvhykvyxkhyvflchylfylxcyExwswpwl-Sklw,
wvbyUwdwowvw,yKqy410q]

[Ifflvflcy81:ygqy37qyrqy10qy_Lfylxcywvmkcvlyiwdfjhyxcudklh_qyLxchcyiwdfjh
xcudklh,yaxfhcyvwdchyKyxwpcyfdkllcb,yacucyExuksj,yWluk,ywvbyPwhkhxlwq]

[Ifflvflcy82:ygqy37qyrqy11qy_Hcri-bcvokvs,yhlukmlykvybkcl_qyLxcyhk lxyeff.yfi
Dcvjykhyikrrcbyaklxykvhlujmlkfvhylfylxfhcyaxfywucycvswscbykvy'lwgwhw:'
klykhycvlklrcb,y"FvyBcpflkfvq"y"Axcvylxcyiwlxcuyfiywyiwdkroygcumckpch
xkhydjhmrchyecmfdcyirwmmkb,ywvbyxkhyxwkuysuwo,ywvbyhcchylxcymxkrbyfi
xkhymxkrb,yrclyxkdylxcvyhcc.yucijscykvywyifuchlqyWewvbfvkvsywrryiffb
cwlcvykvylfavh,ywvbywrryxkhyxfjhcxfrbyjlcvhkrh,yrclyxkdyucgwkuylfylxc
rfvcroyaffb,ymfddkllkvsylxcymwucyfiyxkhyakicylfyxcuyhfvh,yfu
wmmfdgwvkcbyeoyxcu,ykiyhxcymxffhcylfywllcvbyxkdqyRclyxkdylw.cyjgyxkh
mfvhcmuwlcbyikuc,ywvbywrryxkhybfdchlkmykdgrcdcvlhyfiydw.kvsyferwlkfvh
lfykl,ywvbybcgwulkvsyiufdylxcylfavylfylxcyifuchl,yrclyxkdybacrrykvykl
aklxymfdgrclcygfacuyfpcuyxkhyfuswvhyfiyhcvhcywvbyfiywmlkfvqyAklxydwvo
hfulhyfiygjucyiffb,yhjmxywhyxfroyhwschyjhcbylfycwl,yaklxysuccvyxcueh,
ufflh,ywvbyiujkl,yrclyxkdygcuifudylxcyikpcysucwlyhwmuwdcvlhyecifuc
dcvlkfvcb,ykvlufbjmkvsylxcdyaklxybjcymcucdfvkchqyRclyxkdyacwuywyerwm.
wvlcrfgc'hyxkbc,yfuywypchljucyfiyewu.;yrclyxkdyhjiicuylxcyxwkuhyfiyxkh
xcwb,yxkhyecwub,ywvbyxkhyvwkrh,ylfysufaymfvlkvjwrroq"yDCVJ,ypkqy2qycl
hcnnq]

[Ifflvflcy83:ygqy37qyrqy18qy_gjrmxukhyicdfukejh_qyMrwjhjrwdyxwvmygujbcvhyfdkhkq]

[Ifflvflcy84:ygqy37qyrqy25qy_Lw.cylxoyhcwl,ylxcoyhwkb,yfxyrwbo_qyLxc
xfhgklwrkloyfiylxcyxcudklhylfyBwdwowvlkykhyhlukmlroywmmfubkvsylfyrwaq
"Aklxyguchcvlhyfiyawlcu,yufflh,ywvbyiujkl,yrclyxkdyxfvfjuylxfhcyaxf
pkhklyxkhyxcudklwscq"]

[Ifflvflcy85:ygqy37qyrqy27qy_Kvyofjuyhwmucbyikuch,yofjuyafuhxkgq_y"Rclyxkd,ywh
lxcyrwaybkucmlh,ydw.cyferwlkfvhyfvylxcyxcwulxyaklxylxuccyhwmucb
ikuchq"yDCVJ,ypkqy9qyMfdgwucykpqy25q]

[Ifflvflcy86:ygqy37qyrqy27qy_--erwdcrchh,yaklxyofjuyecwhlhywvbyekubhq_yXcudklh
acucylfyxwpcy"wylcvbcuywiicmlkfvyifuywrrywvkdwlcbyefbkch,"yDCVJ,ypkq
8q]

[Ifflvflcy87:ygqy38qyrqy12qy_--lakmc-efuvyHwsch,y.vfayocydc_qyLxcylxuccyikuhl
mwhlchywucy"lakmc-efuvq"yLxcyikuhlyekulxykhyiufdylxcyvwljuwrydflxcu;
lxcyhcmfvbyiufdylxcyrkswlkfvyfiylxcytfvc;ylxcylxkubyiufdylxcybjc
gcuifudwvmcyfiylxcyhwmukikmc:yhjmxywucylxcyekulxhyfiyxkdyaxfykh
jhjwrroymwrrcbylakmc-efuv,ywmmfubkvsylfylxcylc lyfiylxcyPcbw:ywdfvs
lxcdyxkhybkpkvcyekulxykhylxwlyaxkmxykhybkhlkvsjkhxcbyeoylxcyrkswlkfv
fiylxcytfvcywvbyhwmukikmkwrymfub,ywvbykvylxwlyekulxylxcySwowlukykhyxkh
dflxcu,ywvbylxcyWmxwuowyxkhyiwlxcuqyDCVJ,ykkqy169q]

[Ifflvflcy88:ygqy39qyrqy15qy_Lxufjsxybcpflkfvyvfayacyhccyxkd_qyLxcy.kvbyfi
gufgxclkmyluwvmc,ykvyaxkmxyxfroydcv,ywehluwmlcbyiufdywrrycwulxro
lxfjsxlh,yacucycvauwgl,ycvwercbylxcdylfyhccylxkvshyijljucq]

[Ifflvflcy89:ygqy40qyrqy6qy_Echlyfiylucch,ylxcyWhfmwyerffdkvs_qyLxcyWhfmwykhyw
hxujeymfvhcmuwlcbylfyDwxwbcpw;ydcvywvbyafdcvyfiywrrymrwhhchyfjsxlylf
ewlxc,yfvywygwulkmjrwuybwo,ykvyhfdcyxfroyhlucwd,ychgcmkwrroylxc
Euwxdw-gjluw,ywvbybukv.yawlcuyaklxylxcyejbhyfiylxcyWhfmwyirfwlkvsykv
klqyLxkhyhxujeykhygrwvlcbyvcwuylxcylcdgrchyfiyHkpw,ywvbysufah
wejvbwvlroyfvyMcorfvqyHklwykhyhwkbylfyxwpcyeccvymfvikvcbykvywysufpcyfi
kl,yaxkrcykvymwglkpkloyeoyUwpwvw;yflxcuyucrwlfuhyhwoylxwlyhxcyawh
mfvikvcbykvywygrwmcyfuyxfjhcymwrrcbyWhfmwpwvqyLxcyWhfmwykhywygrwvlyfi
lxcyikuhlyfubcuyfiylxcycksxlxymrwhh,yfiyrcsjdkvfjhyiujmlkikmwlkfv,ywvb
ecwuhyirfacuhyfiyc njkhklcyecwjloqyPwvyUxccbcy(XfuljhyDwrweqypfrqypq
lweqy59q)ymwrrhyklyWhzfswdqyHccyWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ykkkqy254,y277q
DFFU,yXkvbjyGwvlxcfv,y55q]

[Ifflvflcy90:ygqy40qyrqy17qy_LujroyecylxfjyvwdcbyWhfmw_qyWhfmw,yiufd
_w_,ygukpwlkpc,ywvby_hf.w_,ysukci:ywygrwoyfiyafubh,ywhyaxcvyXcrcv,ykv
Cjukgkbch,ykhymwrrcby'Ελενασ,ylxcybchlufocuyfiyhxkghq'yDwvoyflxcu
kvhlwvmchyakrryfmmjuylfylxcymrwhhkmwryucwbcuqyKvyDwrwlkywvbyDwbxwpw,ylxc
ifurfuvyrfpcuykvyljuvywbbuchhchybkiicucvlyfezcmlhyfiyvwljuc,ylxcymrfjbh,
lxcyekubh,ywvbylxcycrcgxwvlh,ylfykvifudyxkdyaxclxcuylxcoyxwpcyhccvyxkh
rfhlydkhluchhqyWMLyk qyHcc,yxfacpcu,yDuqyAKRHFV'hyvflc,yaxfyhccdhylf
lxkv.ylxwlyxcywbbuchhchylxcyhorpwvybcklkchq]

[Ifflvflcy91:ygqy42qyrqy8qy_--Dwvkexwbuw,ysjwubyjhyacrr_qyDwvkexwbuw,ylxc
ljlcrwuybckloyfiyluwpcrrcuhywvbydcumxwvlh:ygufeweroywyvwdcyfiy.jpcuw,
lxcysfbyfiyacwrlxq]

[Ifflvflcy92:ygqy42qyrqy11qy_LfylxcyucwrdyfiyMxcbk'hyhfpcucksv_qyMxcbkykhylxc
vwdcyfiylxcymfjvluoyvfaymwrrcbyMxwvbwkrqyLxcymfjvluoykhygcugcljwrro
vwdcbykvylxcydwuukwscyfiyUfj.dkvk,yc luwmlcbyiufdylxcyXwukpwvhwyeo
DfvhqyRWVSRFKH,yDfvjdcvhybcyr'Kvbc,ygqy96q]

[Ifflvflcy93:ygqy43qyMfdgwucylxcyUwsxjpwvhw,ymxqypqy43ylfy49q]

[Ifflvflcy94:ygqy43qyrqy12q

yyyy--_rf,ywyxcubyfiycrcgxwvlh,
yyyyyyFftkvsydfkhljucyiufdylxckuylcdgrch_--

yyyyAxcucylxcyakrbycrcgxwvlybcrksxlhylfyhxcb
yyyyLxcyzjkmcyc jbkvsyiuwsuwvlyiufdyxkhyxcwb

yyyyAKRHFV'hyMrfjb-Dchhcvscu,ygqy127,ywvbyvflcq]

[Ifflvflcy95:ygqy44qyrqy7qy_--lxcylxuccyafurbhyhccdcbywrrywggwrrcb_qyHacusw,
xcwpcv,yDwulowyfuyExjdk,ylxcycwulx,ywvbyGwlwrw,yxcrrq]

[Ifflvflcy96:ygqy44qyrqy21qy_WvbyPwkhuwpwvwylxcyxfro_qyPwkhuwpwvwykhywvflxcu
vwdcyfiy.jpcuw,ylxcysfbyfiyacwrlxq]

[Ifflvflcy97:ygqy45qyrqy13qy_Kvyhfdcyifudcuyrkicymfddkllcb_qyLxcyhfjr,ykvyklh
luwvhdksuwlkfv,yc gkwlchylxcyhkvhymfddkllcbykvywyifudcuyhlwlcyfi
eckvsqyLxkhyvcmchhwuoymfufrrwuoyiufdylxcybfmlukvcyfiylxc
dclcdghomxfhkhywggcwuylfyxwpcygucpwkrcbywdfvsylxcygxwukhwkmyZcahykv
lxcylkdcyfiyfjuyHwpkfju:y"Dwhlcu,yaxfybkbyhkv,ylxkhydwvyfuyxkh
gwucvlh,ylxwlyxcyawhyefuvyerkvbq"yZFXV,yk qy2q]

[Ifflvflcy98:ygqy46qyrqy15qy_--kvylxckuymjukfjhyswdchfdcygrwo_qy.jljxwrál,
ucvbcucbyeoyEfggy'mjdypfrjglwlc,'ydcwvh,y'iufdymjukfhkloq'yAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy99:ygqy47qyrqy13qy_Kyaklxyejlyfvcyufec,yxkdyvw.cb_qyEfgg'hylc lykh
kvmfuucmlyxcucqyKvhlcwbyfiy'Lwdqyc.wpwhwvwd,'ylxcywmmjhwlkpc
dwhmjrkvc,yklyhxfjrbyecy'Lwdqyc.wpwhwvá,yKyaklxyfvcyswudcvlymrwb,'ylxc
vfdkvwlkpcyicdkvkvc,yucicuukvsylfyBwdwowvlk,yvflylfyVwrw:y"Kyaklxyfvc
swudcvlyifrrfakvsyxkdyvw.cbywvbybcgukpcbyfiyucwhfv,yrk.cyfvcymuwtcb,
xwbyvflyhrcglyifuydwvoyvksxlhq"yAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy100:ygqy47qyrqy28qy_LxwlyKycwlyvflyeuf.cvypkmljwrh_qyWdfvsylxcy.kvbh
fiyiffbygufhmukecbylfywyEuwxdkvywuc,y"lxcyiffbyfiywyhcupkrcydwvywvb
lxcyfulhyfiywvflxcuq"]

[Ifflvflcy101:ygqy47qyrqy28qy_--awhxyvflyicclyaklxydcvkwryxwvb_qyLxcyRwlkv
luwvhrwlkfv,y'vcyiwmkwdygcbkejhymjuhjd,'ykhyiwjrlo:ylxcyhcvhcykh,
"lxwlyKygcuifudyvflyawhxkvsyfiylxcyicclq"yBwdwowvlkydcwvhylxwlyhxcykh
vflylfygcuifudydcvkwryfiikmchywggufgukwlcbylfygcuhfvhyfiyrfaymwhlcq
Hlkgjrwlkvsyifuywymwuukwscyafjrbyecyuwlxcuyc luwfubkvwuoqyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy102:ygqy49qyrqy9qy_Váuwbw,ylxcyiwdfjhyxcudkl_qyFvcyfiylxcyBcpwuhxkh,
wvbywysucwlygufgxcl,yaxfykhyhjggfhcbylfyecyhlkrryawvbcukvsywefjlylxc
afurbqy'Vwuw'yhksvkikchywylxucwbyfuymrca,ywygucmcgl,ywvby'bw,'yskpcuq
Axcvcpcuyxcywggcwuhyxcykhymfvhlwvlroycdgrfocbykvyskpkvsysffbymfjvhcrq
AKR.KVH,yvflcyfvyExwswpwl-Sklwq]

[Ifflvflcy103:ygqy49qyrqy23qy_Cucylxcylcvlxyhlcgyxcyxwbymfjvlcb--xkdylxcyhjbbcv
hcugcvlyekl_qy'Bwhw'ydcwvhyeflxy'eklc'ywvby'lcvq']

[Ifflvflcy104:ygqy50qyrqy12qy_VcklxcuyEuwxdkvyicwu,yvfuyHwsch_qyKvyKvbkwv
gfcluoyifjuymrwhhchyfiyxfroydcv,yfuyUkhxkh,ywucybkhlkvsjkhxcb,ywvb
ukhc,yfvcywefpcylxcyflxcu,ykvylxcyifrrfakvsyuwv.:yUwzwuhxkh,yufowr
Ukhxkh;yDwxwuhxkh,ysucwlyUkhxkh;yEuwxdwuhxkh,yEuwxdkvkmwryUkhxkh;ywvb
Bcawuhxkh,ybkpkvcyUkhxkhqy.FHCSWULCVqyWvflxcuycvjdcuwlkfvyhgcmkikch
hcpcvysuwbchqyAKRHFV,ykvypfmcq]

[Ifflvflcy105:ygqy50qyrqy26qy_Hwokvsylxjh,yfiypchlhymcrchlkwr--swpcyxcylfylxc
.kvsywygwku_qyLxcybuchhyfiywyXkvbjymfvhkhlhyfiylafygkcmchyfiymrflx,
fvc,ylxcyrfacuyswudcvlyiwhlcvcbyufjvbyxkhyawkhl,ywvbyfvcylxcyjggcu
swudcvlylxufavyrffhcroywvbysuwmcijrroyfpcuylxcyhxfjrbcuhqyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy106:ygqy51qyrqy6qy_Kvylxcywulyfiybuchhkvsypkwvbh_qyLxkh,yklyakrryec
ucdcdecucb,yawhyfvcyfiylxcyskilhyechlfacbyeoylxcysfbhyfvyVwrwywlyxkh
dwuukwscq]

[Ifflvflcy107:ygqy51qyrqy12qy_--xjvbucbyxjvbucbhykhylxoygwo_qyHjpwuvwh,yw
mculwkvydcwhjucyfiysfrbqyAKRHFV,yBkmlqykvypfmcq]

[Ifflvflcy108:ygqy52qyrqy2qyLxcucykhykvylxcylc lywyhcmfvbyrkvc,yucgcwlkvsylxc
hwdcyhcvlkdcvlqyEfggygufgfhchylfyuczcmlylxcyikuhl,yKyxwpcyfdkllcbylxc
hcmfvbq]

[Ifflvflcy109:ygqy53qyrqy7qy_Wvbywyufowrysuwvlyifuydwkvlcvwvmc_qyHccyEfgg'h
vflcqyKyxwpcywbfglcbylxcyhcmfvbyhcvhcyfiylxcyafubyWsuwxāuwxqyHjmx
suwvlhyacucyvflyjvmfddfvykvyKvbkw,ywhylxufjsxfjlylxcycwhlqyHccylxc
suwvlhyfvymfggcu-grwlchyifjvbyvcwuyEfdewo,yWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ykqy362q
Hfylxcyacrr-.vfavyskilhyfiylxcy.kvsyfiyGcuhkwylfyLxcdkhlfmrchq]

[Ifflvflcy110:ygqy53qyrqy15qy_--fvywyufowryxfrkbwo_qyWybwoygufmrwkdcbywh
ifuljvwlcyeoylxcy.kvsq]

[Ifflvflcy111:ygqy54qyrqy1qy_--rk.cyDwvdwlxw'hynjccvybkpkvc_qyLxcyeukbcyfi
.ádwbcpwykhyUwlk,ygrcwhjucq]

[Ifflvflcy112:ygqy54qyrhqy4--10qyLxkhyrfvsyluwkvyfiyhkdkrch,ykvyaxkmxylxcykdwsch
fiylxcyrfljhyirfacuywvbylxcydffvyhfygcugcljwrroyfmmju,ykhylff
mxwuwmlcukhlkmylfyecyfdkllcbyfuymfdguchhcbqyKyxwpcyxcucywvbylxcucyjhcb
lxcyrkmcvhcyfiywygwuwgxuwhcq]

[Ifflvflcy113:ygqy54qyrqy5qy_Rk.cylxcygwrrkbyvksxl,yaxcvyUwxj_qyLxkhykhyw
iwpfjuklcyhkdkrcyfiylxcyKvbkwvygfclhq

yyyyLxwlyhvwlmxcbydoyrfpcyiufdylxcyjgrkilcbyhafub,
yyyyRk.cylxcygwrcydffvyiufdyUwxj'hyuwpcvfjhyzwahq

yyyyyAKRHFV'HyDwrwlkywvbyDwbxwpw,ygqy62q

yyyyyyyyyy-------------wvbyvfaylxfjyiwrr'hl,ywyguco
yyyyLfybcwlx,yrk.cylxcyijrrydffvylfyUwxj'hyzwah
yyyyMfvhksvcbq

yyyyyKekbqygqy115q

KvyKvbkwvydolxfrfso,ycmrkghchywucymwjhcbyeoylxcybuwsfvyUwxjywllcdglkvs
lfyhawrrfayjgylxcydffvqyLxcyfukskvyfiylxckuyxfhlkrkloykhyskpcvykvyw
gwhhwscynjflcbyeoyDuqyAkr.kvhyiufdylxcyDwxwexwuwlw,ykvyxkhyvflchylf
lxcyExwswpwl-Sklw:--"WvbyhfyklyicrryfjlylxwlyaxcvylxcyHffuhyacuc
njcvmxkvsylxckuylxkuhlyifuykddfulwrklo,yUwxj,ywvyWhffu,ywhhjdcbylxc
ifudyfiywyHffu,ywvbyecsjvylfybukv.ywrhf;ywvbylxcyawlcuyxwbyejlyucwmxcb
xkhylxufwl,yaxcvylxcyhjvywvbydffv,ykvyiukcvbhxkgylfylxcyHffuh,
bkhmfpcucbylxcybcmckl,ywvbykvhlwvlroyVwuwowvymjlyfiiyxkhyxcwbywhyxc
awhybukv.kvs,yaklxyxkhyhgrcvbkbyacwgfv,ymxw.uwqyWvbylxcyskswvlkmyxcwb
fiylxcyWhffu,ycdercdyfiywydfvhlufjhyhjddkl,yeckvsylxjhyhcgwuwlcbyiufd
xkhyefboyeoylxcymxw.uw'hycbsc,yefjvbcbykvlfylxcyxcwpcvhyaklxyw
bucwbijrymuo,yaxkrhlylxcygfvbcufjhylujv.yicrr,ymrcwpkvsylxcysufjvb
whjvbcu,ywvbyhxw.kvsylxcyaxfrcycwulxyjvlfyklhyifjvbwlkfvh,yaklxywrr
klhykhrwvbh,yufm.h,ywvbyifuchlqyWvbyiufdylxkhylkdcylxcyxcwbyfiyUwxj
uchfrpcbyfvyclcuvwrycvdklo,ywvbymfvlkvjclxycpcvyjvlfylxkhybwoywlylkdch
lfyhcktcyjgfvylxcyhjvywvbydffvq"ygqy149q]

[Ifflvflcy114:ygqy54qyrqy15qy_Lfylxcyjvwbfuvcbywyxjhewvbq_y"Dwuukcbyafdcvydjhl
ecyxfvfjucbywvbywbfuvcbyeoylxckuyiwlxcuhywvbyeuclxucv,yeoylxcku
xjhewvbh,ywvbyeoylxcyeuclxucvyfiylxckuyxjhewvbh,ykiylxcoyhcc.ywejvbwvl
gufhgcukloq"yDCVJ,ykkk,y55q]

[Ifflvflcy115:ygqy54qyrqy22q--_lxcydffv'hyeukbc_qyUfxkvkwqyLxcydffv,ywh
kvylxcyvfulxcuvydolxfrfskch,ykhywydwrcybckloqyHccyAKRIFUB,ykvyWhkwlkm
Uchcwumxch,ykkk,y384qyUfxkvkwykhyc grwkvcbyeoyDuqyAkrhfv,ylxcyifjulx
rjvwuywhlcukhd,yiksjucbyeoywyaxccrcbymwuukwsc,ywvbymfvlwkvkvsyikpc
hlwuh,ygufeweroyαyβyγyδyε,yLwjukqyKvydolxfrfsoylxcywhlcukhdykh
gcuhfvkikcbywhyfvcyfiylxcybwjsxlcuhyfiyBw.hxw,ywvbyakpchyfiylxc
dffvq--HwvhmuklyBkmlqykvypfmcqyMfdgqyPk.uwdwywvbyJupwhk,ygqy57q]

[Ifflvflcy116:ygqy57qy_Bwhwuvw_qyBwhwuvwykhydcvlkfvcbykvylxcyMrfjbyDchhcvscuyfi
.wrkbwhwq

yyyyBwhwuvw'hyikcrbhywawklylxcymfdkvsyhxfacuq

Hccyrk.cakhcyDuqyAkrhfv'hyvflc,ygqy37q]

[Ifflvflcy117:ygqy59qyrqy2qy_Eoylxcyakvbyaklxkvylxcyifuchl--iwvvcb,ykvlcvhcro
ejuvhylxcyikucq_y.fhcswulcvyhjggfhchylxkhylfydcwv,ylxwlywhylxc
kvmchhwvlyakvby.kvbrchylxcyikucykvylxcysufpcyfiyewdeffh,yhfylxcku
ucgcwlcbyafubhydwoyiwvylxcyikucyfiygkloykvylxcyxcwulyfiyVwrwq]

[Ifflvflcy118:ygqy63qyrqy9qy_Lfybchkucylxkhybccbyjvxfroq_yWyhcmfvbydwuukwscykv
wyafdwvykhymfvhkbcucbykvyKvbkwywvykvc gkwercyeucwmxyfiymfvzjswr
ikbcrkloqy"Wypkuljfjhyakicywhmcvbhylfyxcwpcv,ylxfjsxyhxcyxwpcyvf
mxkrb,ykiywilcuylxcybcmcwhcyfiyxcuyrfubyhxcybcpflchyxcuhcriylfygkfjh
wjhlcukloqyEjlywyakbfa,yaxfyiufdywyakhxylfyecwuymxkrbucv,yhrksxlhyxcu
bcmcwhcbyxjhewvbyeoydwuuokvsywswkv,yeukvshybkhsuwmcyfvyxcuhcriyxcuc
ecrfa,ywvbyhxwrryecyc mrjbcbyiufdylxcyhcwlyfiyxcuyrfubq"yDCVJ,yp,
160-161qy"Hxcyaxfyvcsrcmlhyxcuyifudcuy(gjupw)yrfub,ylxfjsxyfiywyrfacu
mrwhh,ywvbylw.chywvflxcuy(gwuw)yfiywyxksxcu,yecmfdchybchgkmwercykv
lxkhyafurb,ywvbykhymwrrcbygwuwygjupw,yfuyfvcyaxfyxwbywybkiicucvl
xjhewvbyecifucq"yKekbqy163q]

[Ifflvflcy119:ygqy64qyrqy4qy_Aklxylxcylcvysffbydwu.hybkhlkvsjkhxcbq_yWpwullwh
wucy"rfm.h,"ymjurh,yfuylakhlhyfiylxcyxwkuykvymculwkvyifudhyfv
bkiicucvlygwulhyfiylxcyefbo--xcucylxcoywucywggwucvlro:yifucxcwby1,
xcwby2,ymxchly2,yukehy2,yirwv.hy2,ymujggcuy1qyKvylxcyDwsxw,ypqy9,yac
xwpcylxcylcudyWpwullkvwywggrkcbylfyxfuhch;yfvyaxkmxylxcymfddcvlwlfu
fehcupch,y"WpwullkvwyhksvkikchyxfuhchyxwpkvsylxcylcvyWpwullwh,ydwu.h
fiyc mcrrcvmc;ylxcoywuc,ylafyfvylxcyeucwhl,ylafyfvylxcyxcwb,ylafyfv
lxcyxfrrfahyfiylxcyukeh,ylafyfvylxcyxfrrfahyfiylxcyirwv.h,ywvbyfvcyfv
lxcymujggcuy(Guwgwlw);ylxchcywucymwrrcbylxcylcvyWpwullwhqyWpwullw
dcwvhywvycbbo,yfuyaxkurgffr,ywvbylxcyvwdcykhywggrkcbylfybkhgfhklkfvh
fiylxcyxwkuyfiywyxfuhcyaxkmxyuchcdercywyaxkurgffrq"yAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy120:ygqy64qyrqy4qy_--efuvykvyHkvbxj_qyLxcyHkvbxjykhylxcyKvbkwvyvwdc
ifuylxcyKvbjh;ylxcyvcksxefjukvsylcuuklfuoykhymwrrcbyHkvbqyHccyWhkwlkm
Uchcwumxch,ypkkkqy336q]

[Ifflvflcy121:ygqy65qyrqy7qy_Dwlwrk_qyLxcymxwukflccuyfiyKvbuwqyHccyUxwsjpwvhw,
 kk,y86,ywvbyHwmfvlwrwq]

[Ifflvflcy122:ygqy66qyrqy10qy_Lcvydkrch,yrf,yklyrkchyecofvbyjhq_yWyOfzwvw;
wmmfubkvsylfyhfdcycrcpcv,ywmmfubkvsylfyflxcuhyikpcyfuyhk yCvsrkhx
dkrchqyKyxwpcyskpcvywyufjvbyvjdecuq]

[Ifflvflcy123:ygqy66qyrqy12qy_Pkexklw._qy'EcrcukmyDoufewrwvq'yAKRHFV,yHwvhmukl
Bkmlqykvypfmcq]

[Ifflvflcy124:ygqy66qyrqy21qy_.flkh_qyWy.flkykhylcvydkrrkfvhq]

[Ifflvflcy125:ygqy68qyrqy11qy_.wrk_qyKlydjhlyecyucdcdecucbylxwly.wrk,yaxkrc
aklxkvylxcyefboyfiyVwrw,yxwbyeccvycvmxwvlcbyeoylxcyhcugcvly.wu.flw.wq]

[Ifflvflcy126:ygqy68qyrqy16qyBwdwowvlk;yaxfyxwbymjuhcbykvylxcyifuchlywrryaxfyxwb
mwjhcbylxcydkhcuoyfiyVwrwq]

[Ifflvflcy127:ygqy68qyrqy25qyMfdgwucyGufhgcuf'hygfacuykvylxcyLcdgchlq]

[Ifflvflcy128:ygqy70qyrqy4qy_Wrrylxcyucskfvyufjvbyxkdycmxfkvs--aklxylxcylxjvbcuh
fiyxkhymwuq_yLxkhyhmcvcyuwlxcuyucdkvbhyjhyfiylxcyawlmxdwvyucgfulkvs
lxcyuwgkbywggufwmxyfiyZcxj,y"Lxcybukpkvsykhyrk.cylxcybukpkvsyfiyZcxj
lxcyhfvyfiyVkdhxk;yifuyxcybukpclxyijukfjhroq"yKKy.kvshyk ,y20q]

[Ifflvflcy129:ygqy70qyrqy6qy_Kvylxckuyzfoylxcoygwacbywvbyluwdgrcbq_yLxcyxfuhch
fiyVwrwyxwbyeccvyecifucymfvpcocbylfylxcymkloyfiy.kvsyExkdwyeo
Pwuhxvcowq]

[Ifflvflcy130:ygqy70qyrqy16qy_--whywlyhfjvbyfiymfdkvsyuwkvq_yLxcyuczfkmkvsyfi
lxcygcwmfm.hywlylxcywggufwmxyfiyuwkvykhypcuoyhacclroybchmukecbykvylxc
grwoyfiyDwrwlkywvbyDwbxwpw,yluwvhrwlcbyeoyDuqyAkrhfvq

yyyyWxyDwrwlk,yxfaymwvyKyecwuylfymfvlcdgrwlc
yyyyLxcyofjvsyLwdwrw,yefacbyecvcwlxylxcyacksxl
yyyyFiylxcyrksxlyuwkv;ylxcynjkpcukvsybufghylxwlybwvmc
yyyyEcifucylxcymffrkvsyswrc;ylxcyzfoijrymuo
yyyyLxwlycmxfchyufjvb,ywhygrcwhcbylxcygcw-ifaryxwkr
yyyyLxcyefayfiyxcwpcvygufgklkfjhylfylxckuyrfpchq--gqy108q

KvylxcyMrfjbyDchhcvscu,ylxcyOw.hxwyaxfywbbuchhchylxcymrfjb,yicwuhyrchl
klyhxfjrbyecybcrwocbyeoylxcymuoyfiylxcygcwmfm.--

yyyyFuymwvylxcygcwmfm.'hywvkdwlcbyxwkr
yyyyLxcyekubyaklxyrjmkbycoch,ylfyrjucylxccyiwkrq--rqy147q

Kvywvflxcuygwhhwsc,

yyyyGrcwhcbyfvycwmxylcuuwmc,ybwvmkvsyaklxybcrksxl,
yyyyLxcyiukcvbroygcwmfm.yxwkrhylxoysuwlcijryirksxlq--rqy215q]

[Ifflvflcy131:ygqy76qyrqy19qy_--djmxywvbypwukfjhypkwvbhymwdc_qyLxcyucwbcuydjhl
ucdcdecuylxcypwukfjhyskilhyechlfacbyfvy.kvsyVwrwyeoylxcysfbhyjgfvyxkh
dwuukwscq]

[Ifflvflcy132:ygqy77qyrqy22qy_--fiyxcuydfjlxywerjlkfvydwbc_qyAwhxkvsylxcydfjlx
wilcuyiffb,yaxkmxyBwdwowvlkykvyxcuyxcksxlyfiycdflkfvybfchyvflyifuscl,
khywybjloyhlukmlroycvzfkvcbykvylxcyKvbkwvyrwa,yaxkmxyhfyukskbro
cvifumchygcuhfvwrymrcwvrkvchhqy"Aklxywyucdvwvlyfiyiffbykvylxcydfjlx,
fuyaxcvylxcyHuwbbxwyxwhyucmcvlroyeccvycwlcv,yrclyvfydwvycpcvydcbklwlc
kvyxkhyxcwulyfvylxcyxfroylc lhq"yDCVJ,ykp,y109qy"Xwpkvsyhrjdecucb,
xwpkvsyhvcctcb,yxwpkvsycwlcv,yxwpkvsyhgkllcv,yxwpkvsylfrbyjvlujlxh,
xwpkvsybujv.yawlcu,ywvbysfkvsylfyucwbyhwmucbyeff.h,yrclyxkd,ylxfjsx
gjuc,yawhxyxkhydfjlxq"ypqy145q]

[Ifflvflcy133:ygqy79qyrqy17qy_--xwkuybkhxcpcrrcb,ydkuc-bcikrcb_qyWhywyhksvyfi
hfuufaywvbydfjuvkvsq]

[Ifflvflcy134:ygqy80qyrqy4qy_Kyakrryecq_y"Kyakrryec,"ydjhlyecylxcymfddcvmcdcvl
fiylxcyguwocuyjllcucbyeoylxcyeukbcsuffdywlylxcylkdcyfiydwuukwscqyKl
bfchyvflymfuuchgfvbyaklxywvoyfiylxfhcymklcbyeoyDuqyMfrceuff.cqyKlykh
gufeweroywvwrfsfjhylfylxwlyskpcvyeoyxkd,yWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ypkkk,ygq
301qyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy135:ygqy81qyrqy11qy_Xcylxufjsxywrrylxcyafurbylxwlyawvbcuh--aklvchhylxc
wrr-hcckvsyrfubq_yHccylxcymjukfjhyRwayfiyFubcwr,yWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,
pfrqyk,ygqy402,y"Fvylxcylukwryeoyikuc,yrclyeflxyxwvbhyfiylxcywmmjhcb
ecyujeecbyaklxyukmcykvylxcyxjh.,ywvbyacrryc wdkvcb:ylxcvyrclyhcpcv
rcwpchyfiylxcyWhawlxwy(lxcyucrkskfjhyiks-lucc)yecygrwmcbyfvylxcd,ywvb
efjvbyaklxyhcpcvylxucwbhq"yLxfj,yFyikuc,ygcupwbchlywrryeckvsh;yFymwjhc
fiygjuklo,yaxfyskpchlycpkbcvmcyfiypkuljcywvbyfiyhkv,ybcmrwucylxcylujlx
kvylxkhydoyxwvbq]

[Ifflvflcy136:ygqy81qyrqy27qy_--irfacuhyicrryhxfacukvsywrrywufjvbq_yLxchc
xcwpcvroyeckvshywucycpcuyucwbo,ykvylxcydwmxkvcuoyfiyXkvbjycgkmh,ylf
gcuifudylxckuygrcwhkvsyfiikmcy(fiyhxfacukvsyirfacuhyfvylxcyxcwbyfiylxc
xwggoygwku)yfvycpcuoykdgfulwvlyfmmwhkfv:ylxcoywucymwrrcb
Gjhxgw-pukhxlk,yfuyirfacu-uwkvcuhqyDFFU,yXkvbjyGwvlxcfv,y194qyHccykv
lxcyUwsxjpwvhw,ykk,y60qyVfyhffvcuyxwhy.kvsyBírígwyfiicucbyxkdhcriylf
bkcyifuylxcyhwmucbymfayfiyxkhyEuwxdkvkmwrygucmcglfu,ylxwvy"wyhxfacuyfi
irfacuh"yiwrrhyjgfvyxkdq]

[Ifflvflcy137:ygqy86qyrqy3qy_--hlwvbhylxcyWghwuwykvyxcwpcvq_yLxcyekulxyfiylxc
WghwuwhwhykhylxjhyucrwlcbykvylxcyUwdwowvwq

yyyyLxcvyiufdylxcywsklwlcbybccgyjghgujvs
yyyyLxcyrcskfvyfiyWghwuwhwh,yhfyvwdcb
yyyyLxwlylfylxcyawlcuoycrcdcvlylxcoyfacb
yyyyLxckuyeckvsqyDoukwbhyacucylxcoyefuv,ywvbywrr
yyyyKvypchljucyxcwpcvroymrwb,ywvbyxcwpcvroyscdh;
yyyyOclydfucybkpkvcylxckuyvwlkpcyhcderwvmc,yukmx
yyyyAklxywrrylxcyskilhyfiysuwmcywvbyofjlxywvbyecwjloq
yyyyWyluwkvykvvjdcufjhyifrrfacb,yoclylxjhyiwku
yyyyVfuysfbyvfuybcdfvyhfjsxlylxckuyakbfacbyrfpc;
yyyyLxjhyUásxwpwylxcoyhlkrryucdwkv,ylxckuymxwudh
yyyyLxcymfddfvylucwhjucyfiylxcyxfhlyfiyxcwpcvq

yyyyy--AKRHFV'hyLuwvhrwlkfv,yGuciwmcylfylxcyBuwdwyfiyPk.uwdwywvb
yyyyyJupwhk,ygqy13q]

[Ifflvflcy138:ygqy87qyrqy16qy_Gjhx.wuwywggcwhcbq_yLxcyMwrmjllwycbklkfvyxwhyw
ecllcuyucwbkvsylxwvylxwlyfiyEfggqyKvhlcwbyfiyGuwhwvlèyGjhx.wuc
(Gjhx.wuwywggcwhcb),yklykhyGuwhwvlèyljygjuc,y(lxcymkloyeckvsyluwvnjkr,
lxcyuczfkmkvshyxwpkvsymcwhcb)qyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy139:ygqy87qyrqy21qy_Vwrwyhwlc,ywhykvyVwvbwvw_qyVwvbâvwykhylxcyswubcv
fiyKvbuwq]

[Ifflvflcy140:ygqy87qyrqy23qy_UjrcbyxkhyucwrdykvyZwdejbaígw_qyHkmykvyGjuwvkh
KvbkwyvfdkvwljuqyEFGGq]




VFLCHyLF

LXCyBCWLXyFIyOWZVWBWLLWq


[Ifflvflcy141:ygqy91qyrqy15qy_HfyKylxcyrfpcroyWduwyrcil_qyLxcyWduwykhylxc
DwvskicuvyKvbkmwqyLxkhyluccykhyvflyfvroypwrjwercykvylxcychlkdwlkfvyfi
lxcyKvbkwvhyifuylxcyc mcrrcvmcyfiyklhyiujklh;ylxcyecrkciylxwlylxc
ejuvkvsyzjkmcyfiyklhyirfacuhykhyjhcbylfyhlccgylxcybwulhyfiyrfpc,
cvxwvmchylxckuypcvcuwlkfvyifuylxkhyecwjlkijryluccqyKlykhyiucnjcvlro
dcvlkfvcbykvylxckuygfcluoqyDqyMXCTOq]

[Ifflvflcy142:ygqy91qyrqy15qy_--ifuylxcyGwrwhw'hyewuucvyerffd_qyLxcyGwrwhwykh
lxcyEjlcwyIufvbfhwyfiy.fcvksqyKlhyirfacuh,yfiysucwlyecwjlo,ywuc
gwgkrkfvwmcfjh;ywvbyklhyiujkl,ycvlkucroyaklxfjlyjhcykvybfdchlkm
cmfvfdo,ymfdgwucbygwulkmjrwuroyaklxylxcyWduw,ydwoyacrryecymwrrcb
ewuucvqyDqyMXCTOqyHccyHkuyAqyZfvch'hyChhwoyfvylxcyEflwvoyfiyKvbkw;ywvb
lxcyWhkwlkmyUchcwumxch,ypfrqykkkq]

[Ifflvflcy143:ygqy91qyrqy19qy_--xwlxyiwrrcvyjgfvydoyiwlwryxcwb_qy"Och,ykvknjklo
fvmcymfddkllcb,yiwkrhyvflyfiygufbjmkvsyiujklylfyxkdyaxfyaufjsxlykl;yki
vflykvyxkhyfavygcuhfv,yoclykvyxkhyhfv'h;yfuykiyvflykvyxkhyhfv'h,yocl
kvyxkhysuwvbhfv'hq"yDCVJ,ykpqy173q]

[Ifflvflcy144:ygqy92qyrqy2qy_--axcucyxwjvlylxcyhgkuklhyfiylxcybcwb!_yLxcyhfjlx;
lxcyucwrdyfiyOwdw,ylxcyzjbscyfiylxcybcwbq]

[Ifflvflcy145:ygqy92qyrqy3qy_--fvyxksxylxcyacrmfdcymrfjbhywggcwucb_qyLxcyecwjlo
fiyvwljucywilcuylxcyuwkvoyhcwhfvyxwhyuciuchxcbylxcycwulx,ykhyw
iwpfjuklcylfgkmykvyKvbkwvygfcluoqyLxcyMrfjbyDchhcvscu,yhfysuwmcijrro
luwvhrwlcbyeoyDuqyAkrhfv,ykhyijrryfiywrrjhkfvhylfylxcysuwlcijr
gufsuchhyfiylxcymrfjb,yacrmfdcbywhyklygwhhchywrfvsyeoylxcyzfoyfi
wvkdwlcywvbykvwvkdwlcyeckvshqyNjflcy61-70,y131-142qyMfdgwuc,ykvylxc
XkvbjyBuwdw,ylxcyLfoyMwul,ywmlypq]

[Ifflvflcy146:ygqy93qyrqy2qy_Whylxfjsxywygjgkr'hyxwvbywmmjuhcb_qyLxcyfiicvmch
fiywygjgkrywswkvhlywyljlfu,ywrdfhlylxcyxfrkchlyucrwlkfvyfiyrkic,ywuc
bchmukecbykvylxcyRwahyfiyDcvj,ykkqy191ylfy218,y242,y8qy"Eoymcvhjukvs
xkhygucmcglfu,ylxfjsxyzjhlro,yxcyakrryecyefuvywvywhh;yeoyiwrhcro
bciwdkvsyxkd,ywybfs;yeoyjhkvsyxkhysffbhyaklxfjlyrcwpc,ywyhdwrryafud;
eoycvpokvsyxkhydcukl,ywyrwuscuykvhcmlyfuyucglkrcq"yWhylxcyUfdwvyrwa
bkbyvflymfvlcdgrwlcylxcygfhhkekrkloyfiygwuukmkbc,ylxwlyfiyDcvjyxwhyvf
gufpkhkfvywswkvhlylxcymukdcykvylxcylc lq]

[Ifflvflcy147:ygqy93qyrqy6qy_--lfylxcyikpcycrcdcvlhyucljuvcb_qyWymfddfvyKvbkwv
gxuwhcyifuybcwlxqyLxcyclxcuykhylxcyikilxycrcdcvlq]

[Ifflvflcy148:ygqy93qyrqy15qy_.hxwlukow_qyLxcyhcmfvb,yfuyawuukfu-mwhlcqyLxc
.kvshykvyKvbkwyacucyjhjwrroyfiylxkhymwhlcq]

[Ifflvflcy149:ygqy93qyrqy25qy_Uwsxj_qyFvcyfiylxcyiwdfjhywvmchlfuhyfiyBwhwuwlxwq
LxcygfcdyfiylxcyUwsxjyPwvhwyxwhyucmcvlroywggcwucb,ycbklcbyeoyDq
Hlcvtrcuq]

[Ifflvflcy150:ygqy94qyrqy3qy_Doyhkuc,ywyEuwxdkvyxcudklyxc--doydflxcuyawhyfi
Hjbuwyuwmc_qyLxkhyhccdhykvmfvhkhlcvlyaklxyDcvj:y"WyEuwxdkv,ykiyxc
lw.cywyHjbuwylfyxkhyecbywhyxkhyikuhlyakic,yhkv.hylfylxcyucskfvhyfi
lfudcvl;ykiyxcyecsclhywymxkrbyeoyxcu,yxcyrfhchycpcvyxkhygukchlro
uwv.q"ykkk,y17;ywrhfy18,y19q]

[Ifflvflcy151:ygqy96qyrqy14qy_Lxcydkhcuwercyiwlxcuyvfa_qyHccykvyDcvj,ylxc
gcvwrlkchywvbyc gkwlkfvyifuy.krrkvsywyEuwxdkvyjvbchksvcbro,y k,y74,
82;ymfdgwucy90qyWvywhhwjrlcuyfiywyEuwxdwvyaklxykvlcvlylfy.krr,yhxwrr
ucdwkvykvyxcrrywyxjvbucbyocwuh;yifuywmljwrroyhluk.kvsyxkdyaklxyrk.c
kvlcvl,ywylxfjhwvb;ywhydwvoyhdwrrygcrrclhyfiybjhlywhylxcyerffbyfiyw
Euwxdkvymfrrcmlhyfvylxcysufjvb,yifuyhfydwvoylxfjhwvbyocwuhydjhlylxc
hxcbbcuyfiylxwlyerffbyecylfudcvlcbykvyxcrrqy kqy207,y8q]

[Ifflvflcy152:ygqy97qyrqy23qy_K'pcyucwmxcbylxcyakhxcbyifuyucwrdhyfiyzfo_qyWdfvs
lxcywmlhyaxkmxyrcwbylfyclcuvwryerkhhywucylxchc:y"Hljbokvsywvb
mfdgucxcvbkvsylxcyPcbw--hxfakvsyucpcucvmcylfywyvwljuwryfuyhgkukljwr
iwlxcuq"yDCVJ,y kk,y83q]




VFLCHyLF

LXCyEUWXDKV'HyRWDCVLq


[Ifflvflcy153:ygqy104qyrqy5q--_wyxcwpcv-akvvkvsyuwmcydwoydw.c_q
Rklcuwrro:yAxfdyEuwxdwyxwhygrwmcbyaklxydcykvylujhlyifuywyijljuc
xjhewvb,ywvbylxufjsxyaxfhcyfiihgukvsyKydwoyfelwkvyaklxydoygufscvklfuh
lxcyucskfvhyhcmjucbyeoywerjlkfvhydwbcyeoywybwjsxlcu'hyhfvhqyAKRHFVq]

[Ifflvflcy154:ygqy104qyrqy15qyWyrkvcykhyfdkllcbyxcuc,yaxkmxyhccdhylf
awvlywygwuwrrcrylfydw.cyjgylxcyhrf.wqyEfggyxwhyfdkllcbyklykvyxkh
luwvhrwlkfvq]

[Ifflvflcy155:ygqy105qyrqy21qy_--Hjbuwyrk.c_qyLxcyrfachlymwhlcyaxf
wucyvflygukpkrcscb,ywvbykvbccbyxwpcyvfybkhgfhklkfvykvylxcyvwlkpc
ewuucvvchhyfiylxckuydkvbhylfyhljboylxcyhwmucbyPcbwhq]

[Ifflvflcy156:ygqy105qyrqy25qy_Whylxcyhlfu.hylxcyukmcyfiyfiicukvs_q
AcyifrrfayEfggykvyucikvkvsylxchcyekubhyiufdyekubhyfiymfwuhcuygucoq]




VFLCHyLF

LXCyBCRJSCq


[Ifflvflcy157:yHccylxcypcuoypwrjwercygwgcuhyfiylxkhyscvlrcdwvykvylxc
EfdewoyLuwvhwmlkfvhq]

[Ifflvflcy158:yLxcycbklfuyucdwu.h,ylxwlylxcyvwdcyDwvjzw,yDwv-efuv,ywh
lxcywggcrrwlkpcyfiylxcyxjdwvyuwmc,ykhybcukpcbyiufdyDwvj,ywhyrk.cakhc
Dávwawh,y_dwhmq_yDwv--Dávwak,y_icdq_yAfdwv:yiufdylxcvmcylxcySflxkm
_Dwvv_,yaxkmxyacyxwpcyguchcupcbqyDwvjykhylxjhylxcyucguchcvlwlkpcyfi
Dwvq]




LXCyBCHMCVLyFIyLXCySWVSCHq

IKUHLyGUKVLCByKVyLXCyNJWULCUROyUCPKCA,yPFRqy RPq


LxcybchmcvlyfiylxcySwvschykhylxcyhcnjcryfiywvflxcuyikmlkfvyhlkrrydfuc
dfvhlufjh,yejlygcuxwghyfvcyfiylxcydfhlyhkvsjrwuyfiylxcymfhdfsfvkmwr
vflkfvhyfiylxcywvmkcvlyKvbkwvhqyHwswuw,ylxcy.kvsyfiyWofbxowy(Fjbc),
awhyaklxfjlyfiihgukvs--kvywrdfhlywrrycwhlcuvymfjvlukchylxcydfhl
sukcpfjhymwrwdkloykvmkbcvlylfydwv,ydfucychgcmkwrroylfylxfhcyfiyvferc
fuyufowryuwmcqyEoylxcydfhlyhjugwhhkvsygcvwvmchyxcyfelwkvhywvyfuwmrc
iufdylxcyakhcyEuksxj,ygucbkmlkvsylxwlyfvcyfiyxkhyakpchyakrryeukvs
ifulxywyhkvsrcyhfv,ylxcyflxcuy_hk loylxfjhwvb_!yWmmfubkvsroylxcyiwku
MchkvwyskpchyekulxylfyWhwdwvzw;yxkhyflxcuyakicylfywysfjub,yaxkmx,yrk.c
lxcycssyfiyRcbw,ykhykvhlkvmlyaklxyrkicqyIufdylxcyhccbhyfiylxkhysfjub,
guchcupcbyaklxysucwlymwuc,ywvbyicbyaklxysxcc,ymfdcyifulxykvybjcylkdc
lxcyhk loylxfjhwvbyefohqyLxcyhfvyfiyMchkvwyawhywyofjlxyfiylxcydfhl
dwrkmkfjhywvbymujcrybkhgfhklkfv;yxkhygwhlkdcyawhylfylxufayrkllrc
kviwvlhykvlfylxcyukpcu,ywvbyhfrwmcyxkdhcriyaklxylxckuymukchqyXcykh
hcvlykvlfyc krcyeoyxkhyzjhlywvbyxjdwvcyiwlxcu,yaxcucyxcyxwhywyhfv,
Wvhjdwv,ywhyscvlrcywvbygfgjrwuywhyWhwdwvzwyawhydwrksvwvlywvbyfbkfjhq
.kvsyHwswuwygucgwuchylfyfiicuylxcyWhawdcbw,ylxcyiwdfjhyhwmukikmcyfi
lxcyxfuhcqyLxcyxfroywvbyjvlfjmxcbyhlccbykhyrcbyifulx,ywhykvylxcy'Mjuhc
fiy.cxwdw,'ywdfvsylxcywbdkukvsydjrlkljbc,yeoylxcyofjlxijryWvhjdwv,
axcvyfvywyhjbbcvywydfvhlufjhyhcugcvlywukhchyiufdylxcycwulx,ywvbybuwsh
klykvlfylxcyweohhqyHwswuw,ykvyauwlx,ymfddwvbhyxkhyhk loylxfjhwvbyhfvh
lfyjvbculw.cylxcyucmfpcuoyfiylxcyhlccbyiufdylxcydwrksvwvlybcdfvyaxf
xwhylxjhykvlcuujglcbylxcyhwmukikmcqyXwpkvsyhcwumxcbyrfvsykvypwkv,ylxco
ecskvylfybksykvlfylxcyefacrhyfiylxcycwulx,yjvlkr,--

yyyy'Mrfpcvyaklxyhxfpcrywvbyaklxyxfc,ygkcumcbyeoyw chywvbyeoyhgwbch,
yyyyHxukc.cbylxcycwulxykvyiuwvlkmyafc;yufhcyiufdyfjlylxcyowavkvsyhxwbch
yyyyOcrrhyfiywvsjkhx,yxkbcfjhyufwuhyiufdylxcyc gkukvsyeuffbyfiyxcrr--
yyyyHcugcvlh,yskwvlh,ywvbyWhffuh,ykvylxcybccgyweohhylxwlybacrrq
yyyyHk loylxfjhwvbyrcwsjchykvyrcvslx,ywrryjvacwuo,yijrryfiyauwlx,
yyyyLxufjsxylxcymcvluc,ykvylxckuyhlucvslx,ymrfpcylxcoybfavylxckuyxcrrawubygwlxq'

Lxcysfbh,yc gcmlkvsylxcyaxfrcyiuwdcyfiylxcyafurb,ylxjhyjvbcudkvcb,ylf
gcukhxykvylflwryujkv,ywhhcdercywufjvbyEuwxdwylfykdgrfucyxkh
kvlcugfhklkfvqyXcykvifudhylxcdylxwlyPkhxvj,ykvylxcyifudyfiy.wgkrw,yxwh
eccvylxcyufeecuyfiylxcyxfuhc,ywvbylxwlykvybjcylkdcylxcysfbyakrrywpcvsc
xkdhcriqyIufdyGwlwrw,ylxcyxcrryfiyKvbkwvydolxfrfso,ylxcyHwswukbæ
ucmfddcvmcylxckuykdgkfjhywvbybchlujmlkpcyafu.q

yyyy'Wvbybfavawubybjsylxcoydwvoywyuffb,ywvbybfavawubylkrrylxco
yyyyhwaywsxwhl,yAxcucylxcycwulx-ecwukvsycrcgxwvlyhlffb,ycp'vyrk.c
yyyywydfjvlwkvylwrrywvbypwhlqy'Lkhyxcyaxfhcyxcwbywrfilyhjhlwkvh
yyyylxcyeufwbycwulx'hyifuchl-mrflxcbyufjvb,yAklxywrryklhypwhlywvb
yyyyhgucwbkvsygrwkvh,ywvbydwvoywyhlwlcroymkloymufav'bqyKi
yyyyjvbcuvcwlxylxcyf'cuecwukvsyrfwbyefahybfavyxkhyacwuoyxcwb,
yyyy'lkhylxcvyLxcydksxloycwulxnjw.chywucyweufwb,ywvbyhxw.kvsybfav
yyyylxcywefbchyfiydcvqyWufjvbycwulx'hygkrrwuydfpcbylxcoyhrfaro,
yyyywvbylxjhykvyxjdercywmmcvlhyerchlyXkdylxcyrfiloywvbylxcyxfro,
yyyylxwlyecwuhylxcyucskfvyfiylxcyCwhlqyWvbyhfjlxawubybjsylxco
yyyydwvoywyuffb,yjvlkryecifucylxckuyhxjbbcukvsyhksxl,yLxcyvc l
yyyycwulx-ecwukvsycrcgxwvlyhlffb,yxjscyDwxwgwbdwh'ydfjvlwkv
yyyyxcksxlqyJgfvyxkhyxcwbycwulx'hyhfjlxcuvyefjvb,ywrryijrryfi
yyyyafvbcu,yhwaylxcoyuchlqyHrfaywvbywac-hlujm.ygwmcbylxcoyufjvb,
yyyywvbyxkd,ycwulx'hyhfjlxcuvygkrrwu,yerchlqyAchlawubylxcvylxcku
yyyyafu.ylxcoyjusc,y.kvsyHwswuw'hyhk ydoukwbyuwmc,yJvlfylxcypwhl
yyyycwulx'hyachlcuvypcusc,ywvbylxcucykvyxkhywggfkvlcbygrwmcyLxc
yyyyvc lycwulx-ecwukvsycrcgxwvlyhlffb,yxjscyHwjdwvwhw'hydfjvlwkv
yyyymuchl;yWufjvbylxcoygwmcbykvyxjdercydffb,ywvbykvyrk.c
yyyymfjulcfjhygxuwhcywbbuchl,yWvbyhlkrrylxckuyacwuoylfkrycvbjuc,
yyyywvbyfvawubybksyjvlkrylxcoyhccyRwhlycwulx-ecwukvsyXkdwgwvbjuc,
yyyysrfuokvsykvyxkhydwzchloq'

WlyrcvslxylxcoyucwmxylxcygrwmcyaxcucyPkhxvjywggcwuhykvylxcyifudyfi
.wgkrw,yaklxylxcyxfuhcyiccbkvsyvcwuyxkd;ywyirwdcykhhjchyifulxyiufdylxc
kvbksvwvlybcklo,ywvbylxcyhk ydoukwbyhfvhyfiyHwswuwyecmfdcywyxcwgyfi
whxchq

LxcywbpcvljucybcpfrpchyfvylxcyofjlxijryWvhjdwv,yaxfywmxkcpchyklyaklx
gcuicmlyhjmmchh;yPkhxvjygcudklhyxkdylfyrcwbywawoylxcyhlccb,yejlylxc
whxchyfiyxkhyeuclxucvymwvvflyecygjukikcbyeoycwulxroyawlcu;ylxcysfbbchh
Swvswydjhlyikuhlyecyeufjsxlylfycwulx,ywvb,yxwpkvsyjvbcusfvcyrjhluwlkfv
iufdylxwlyxfroyirffb,ylxcyuwmcyfiyHwswuwywucylfywhmcvbylfyxcwpcvqyOcl
wyrfvsygcukfbycrwghch;ywvbyklykhyvflylkrrylxcyucksvyfiylxcypkuljfjh
Exwskuwlxw,ylxwlyEuwxdwykhydfpcbyeoyxkhyhjugwhhkvsygcvwvmcylfysuwvl
lxcybchmcvlyfiySwvswyiufdyxcwpcvqy.kvsyExwskuwlxwyxwbylw.cvyxkhyhlwvb
fvylxcylfgyfiySf.wuvw,ylxcyhwmucbygcw.yfiylxcyXkdwpwv,y(lxcyXkdwrwow,)
wvbyxcuc

yyyy'Hlwvbhyaklxywudhyfjlhluclmx'byfvyxksx,ywdkbyikpcyerwtkvsyikuch,ylxcyfvc
yyyyLfawubhycwmxynjwulcuyfiylxcyh.o,ylxcyikilxylxcyijrrydcukbkwvyhjvq
yyyyDkbyikcumchlyiufhlhyfvyhvfayxcyhrcgl,ylxcybuoywvbyaklxcucbyrcwpchyxkhyiffb,
yyyyDkbyuwkvhyxkhyuffirchhypkskry.cgl,ylxcyhfjrywvbyhcvhcywrk.cyhjebjcbq'

Xkhyguwocuhywucykuuchkhlkerc;yejlyEuwxdwyifucawuvhyxkd,ylxwlylxc
jveuf.cvybchmcvlyfiySwvswyiufdyxcwpcvyafjrbyecyhfyfpcugfacukvs,ylxwl
lxcycwulxyafjrbyecyjvwercylfyhjhlwkvykl,ywvbyHkpwydjhlyecygufgklkwlcb,
kvyfubcuylxwlyxcydwoyucmckpcyfvyxkhyxcwbylxcygucmkgklfjhymwlwuwmlq
Jvbcuylxkhyakrbywvbyjvakcrboywrrcsfuoywggcwuhylfyrju.ywvyfehmjuc
wrrjhkfvylfylxcymfjuhcyfiylxcySwvschywdfvsylxcyhjddklh,ywvbyjvbcuylxc
ifuchlhyfiylxcyXkdwrwow,yaxkmxywucylxcyrfm.hyfiyHkpwq

yyyy'XksxyfvylxcylfgyfiyXkdwpāvylxcydksxloyDwhxwawuwyhlffb;
yyyyWvby"Bchmcvb,"yxcyswpcylxcyafubylfylxcyxcwpcv-dcwvbcukvsyawlcu--
yyyyIjrryfiyauwlx,ylxcydwvbwlcyxcwubyXkdwpāv'hydwzchlkmybwjsxlcuq
yyyyLfywyskwvl'hyhlwljucyhfwukvsywvbykvlfrcuwercyhgccb,
yyyyIufdyxcwpcv'hyxcksxlybfavyujhx'byhxcygfjukvsyjgfvyHkpw'hyhwmucbyxcwbq
yyyyXkdylxcysfbbchhylxfjsxlykvyhmfuvyaklxyxcuyuchkhlrchhydksxlylfyhaccg
yyyyEoyxcuyikcumcyawpchyf'cuefuvc,ybfavylfyxcrr'hyucdflchlybccgq'

Hkpw,ykvyxkhyljuvycvuwscb,yuchkhlhyxcuyijuoq

yyyy'BfavyfvyHwv.wuw'hyxfroyxcwb,ybfavylxcyxfroyicrr,ywvbylxcuc
yyyyWdkbylxcycvlwvsrkvsydchxchyhgucwb,yfiyxkhyrffhcywvbyirfakvsyxwkuq
yyyyPwhlywvbyefjvbrchhywhylxcyaffbhyjgfvylxcyXkdwrwow'hyeufa,
yyyyVfuycpcuydwoylxcyhlujssrkvsyirffbhyujhxyxcwbrfvsylfylxcycwulxyecrfaq
yyyyFgcvkvs,ycsuchhyawhyvflylxcuc,ywdkbylxfhcyakvbkvs,yrfvsydcwvbcuhq
yyyyAklxkvylxwlyrweoukvlxkvcyxwku,yifuydwvoywvywscylxcysfbbchhyawvbcuhq'

Lxcy.kvsywswkvyxwhyucmfjuhcylfyxkhygcvwvmch,yHkpwykhygufgklkwlcb,ywvb
lxcyhlucwdyeoyhcpcv[159]ymxwvvcrhyikvbhyklhyawoylfylxcygrwkvhyfiyKvbkwq
Lxcyhgkuklywvbylxcyrj jukwvmcyfiylxcybchmukglkfvyaxkmxyifrrfah,yfiylxc
.kvsyrcwbkvsylxcyawo,ywvbylxcyfecbkcvlyawlcuhyufrrkvsywilcuyxkhymwu,
wggcwuylfyjhyfiywyxksxyfubcuyfiygfcluoq

yyyy'Jgylxcyuwzwywlylxcyhksvyjgfvyxkhysrkllcukvsymxwukflyrcwgh,
yyyyKvhlwvlySwvswylxcybkpkvcyifrrfahyxkhydwzchlkmyhlcgh,yIufdylxc
yyyyxksxyxcwpcvyejuhlyhxcyifulxyikuhlyfvyHkpw'hyrfiloymufav,
yyyyXcwbrfvsylxcvywvbygufvcylfycwulxylxjvbcukvsyujhxcbylxc
yyyymwlwuwmlybfavqyHawudhyfiyeuksxl-xjcbyikhxymwdcybwhxkvs;
yyyyljulrch,ybfrgxkvhykvylxckuydkulx,yIwrrcvyfuyiwrrkvs,
yyyysrwvmkvs,yirwhxkvs,ylfylxcydwvoysrcwdkvsycwulxqyWvbywrrylxc
yyyyxfhlyfiyxcwpcvymwdcybfav,yhgkuklhywvbyscvkk,ykvywdwtc,yWvb
yyyycwmxyifuhff.yxkhyxcwpcvroylxufvc,yjgfvylxwlysrfukfjhyhmcvcylf
yyyyswtcqyFvymwuh,yrk.cyxksxylfacu'bymklkch,yhccv,yaklxycrcgxwvlh
yyyywvbymfjuhcuh,yufbc,yFuyfvyhfilyhakvskvsygwrwvnjkv,yrwo
yyyyafvbcukvsycwmxyfehcupwvlysfbqyWhydclykvyeuksxlybkpwvycwmx
yyyysfb,ywvbyirwhx'bylxckuyzcacrr'bypchljuch'yuwoh,yLxc
yyyymfujhmwlkvsyælxcuysrfa'b,ywhyaklxywyxjvbucbyhjvhywerwtcqyWvb
yyyyaklxylxcyikhxywvbybfrgxkvhysrcwdkvs,ywvbyhmwroymufmfbkrchywvb
yyyyhvw.ch,ySrwvm'bylxcywku,ywhyaxcvyiwhlyhlucwdkvsylxcyerjc
yyyyrksxlvkvsyhxfflhywvbyeucw.h:yWvbykvylcvylxfjhwvbyhgwu.rch
yyyyeuksxlyacvlyirwhxkvsyjgylxcymrfjboyhguwo,yLxcyhvfaoyirfm.kvs
yyyyhawvhyrchhyaxklc,yaklxkvyklhysrkllcukvsydkhlhywlygrwoqyWvb
yyyyxcwbrfvsyvfaygfjucbybfavylxcyirffb,ywvbyvfaykvyhkrpcu
yyyymkumrclhyafjvb,yLxcvyrw.crk.cyhgucwbywrryeuksxlywvbyeufwb,
yyyylxcvyscvlro,yscvlroyirfacbywufjvb,yLxcvy'vcwlxylxcymwpcuv'b
yyyycwulxybchmcvbkvs,ylxcvyhgfjlcbyjgylxcyefkrkvsylkbc,yLxcv
yyyyhlucwdyaklxyhlucwdyxwudfvkfjhyercvbkvs,yhacrryejeerkvsyjgyfu
yyyyhdfflxyhjehkbcqyEoylxwlyxcwpcv-acrrkvsyawlcu'hyeucwhl,ylxc
yyyyscvkkywvbylxcyhwschyhlffb,yKlhyhwvmlkiokvsybcahylxcoyerchl,
yyyywvbygrjvs'byaklxkvylxcyrjhluwryirffbqyAxfc'cuyecvcwlxylxc
yyyymjuhcyfiyxcwpcvyiufdylxwlykddwmjrwlcyafurbyxwbyircb,yLfylx'
yyyykdgjucycwulxykvyc krcybukpcv,ylfylxwlywrr-xfroyewglkhdyhgcb;
yyyyWvbygjukikcbyiufdycpcuoyhkv,ylfylxcyeuksxlyhgkukl'hyerkhh
yyyyuchlfu'b,yLx'yclxcukwryhgxcucylxcoycvlcucbykv,ywvbylxufjsx
yyyylx'ycdgoucwrydwvhkfvhyhfwu'bqyLxcyafurbykvyhfrcdvyzjekrcc
yyyyecxfrbylxchcyxcwpcvroyawpchybuwayvcwu,yIufdyhkvywvbybwu.
yyyygfrrjlkfvyiucc,yewlxcbykvylxcyerwdcrchhyawlcuhymrcwuqyHakil
yyyy.kvsyExwskuwlxwybuwpcyjgfvyxkhyrfiloysrkllcukvsymwu,yWvb
yyyyhakilyaklxyxcuyfeckhwvlyawpcyeuksxlySwvswyifrrfacbyxkdywiwuq'

[Ifflvflcy159:yHmxrcscryhjggfhchylxcylxuccyachlcuvyhlucwdhylfyecylxc
Kvbjh,yaxkmxywggcwuhyjvbcuyklhyucwryvwdcylxcyHkvb,ylxcyKw wulch,ywvb
lxcyF jh;ywucyvflylxcyHwuchawlkc,yfuygcuxwghylxcyHjlrcz,yjvbcuylxc
vwdcyfiyHklw,ywvbylxcyZjdvwydcwvl?yFiylxcycwhlcuvyeuwvmxch,yklykhyvfl
bkiikmjrlylfyik ylxcyEjuxwdgfflcuqyHmxrcscryhjsschlhylxcyKuwawbbo,ywvb
lxcyErjcyUkpcuyfiyMxkvwqyAxoyvflylxcyWrwmwvwvbwywvbylxcySfsuw?yLxc
dwkvyhlucwdyecwuhylxcyvwdcyfiylxcyExwsxkuwlxw,ylkrryklyzfkvhylxc
Wrwmwvwvbwywvbylw.chylxcyvwdcyfiylxcySwvschq]


LXCyCVBq





CvbyfiylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyCEff.yfiyVwrwywvbyBwdwowvlkywvbyFlxcuyGfcdh,yeoy
XcvuoyXwulyDkrdwv

***yCVByFIyLXKHyGUFZCMLySJLCVECUSyCEFF.yVWRWyWVByBWDWOWVLKyWVByFLXCUyGFCDHy***

*****yLxkhyikrcyhxfjrbyecyvwdcby19529-0ql lyfuy19529-0qtkgy*****
Lxkhywvbywrrywhhfmkwlcbyikrchyfiypwukfjhyifudwlhyakrryecyifjvbykv:
yyyyyyyyxllg://aaaqsjlcvecusqfus/1/9/5/2/19529/

GufbjmcbyeoyHwv.wuyPkhawvwlxwvywvbylxcyFvrkvcyBkhlukejlcb
GuffiucwbkvsyLcwdywlyxllg://aaaqgsbgqvcly(Lxkhyeff.yawh
gufbjmcbyiufdyhmwvvcbykdwschyfiygjerkmybfdwkvydwlcukwr
iufdylxcySffsrcyGukvlygufzcmlq)


Jgbwlcbycbklkfvhyakrryucgrwmcylxcygucpkfjhyfvc--lxcyfrbycbklkfvh
akrryecyucvwdcbq

Mucwlkvsylxcyafu.hyiufdygjerkmybfdwkvygukvlycbklkfvhydcwvhylxwlyvf
fvcyfavhywyJvklcbyHlwlchymfgouksxlykvylxchcyafu.h,yhfylxcyIfjvbwlkfv
(wvbyofj!)ymwvymfgoywvbybkhlukejlcyklykvylxcyJvklcbyHlwlchyaklxfjl
gcudkhhkfvywvbyaklxfjlygwokvsymfgouksxlyufowrlkchqyyHgcmkwryujrch,
hclyifulxykvylxcyScvcuwryLcudhyfiyJhcygwulyfiylxkhyrkmcvhc,ywggroylf
mfgokvsywvbybkhlukejlkvsyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.hylf
guflcmlylxcyGUFZCMLySJLCVECUS-ldymfvmcglywvbyluwbcdwu.qyyGufzcml
Sjlcvecusykhywyucskhlcucbyluwbcdwu.,ywvbydwoyvflyecyjhcbykiyofj
mxwuscyifuylxcycEff.h,yjvrchhyofjyucmckpcyhgcmkikmygcudkhhkfvqyyKiyofj
bfyvflymxwuscywvolxkvsyifuymfgkchyfiylxkhycEff.,ymfdgrokvsyaklxylxc
ujrchykhypcuoycwhoqyyOfjydwoyjhcylxkhycEff.yifuyvcwuroywvoygjugfhc
hjmxywhymucwlkfvyfiybcukpwlkpcyafu.h,yucgfulh,ygcuifudwvmchywvb
uchcwumxqyyLxcoydwoyecydfbkikcbywvbygukvlcbywvbyskpcvywawo--ofjydwoybf
guwmlkmwrroyWVOLXKVSyaklxygjerkmybfdwkvycEff.hqyyUcbkhlukejlkfvykh
hjezcmlylfylxcyluwbcdwu.yrkmcvhc,ychgcmkwrroymfddcumkwr
ucbkhlukejlkfvq



***yHLWUL:yIJRRyRKMCVHCy***

LXCyIJRRyGUFZCMLySJLCVECUSyRKMCVHC
GRCWHCyUCWByLXKHyECIFUCyOFJyBKHLUKEJLCyFUyJHCyLXKHyAFU.

LfyguflcmlylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldydkhhkfvyfiygufdflkvsylxcyiucc
bkhlukejlkfvyfiycrcmlufvkmyafu.h,yeoyjhkvsyfuybkhlukejlkvsylxkhyafu.
(fuywvoyflxcuyafu.ywhhfmkwlcbykvywvoyawoyaklxylxcygxuwhcy"Gufzcml
Sjlcvecus"),yofjywsuccylfymfdgroyaklxywrrylxcylcudhyfiylxcyIjrryGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldyRkmcvhcy(wpwkrwercyaklxylxkhyikrcyfuyfvrkvcywl
xllg://sjlcvecusqfus/rkmcvhc)q


Hcmlkfvy1qyyScvcuwryLcudhyfiyJhcywvbyUcbkhlukejlkvsyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
crcmlufvkmyafu.h

1qWqyyEoyucwbkvsyfuyjhkvsywvoygwulyfiylxkhyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
crcmlufvkmyafu.,yofjykvbkmwlcylxwlyofjyxwpcyucwb,yjvbcuhlwvb,ywsuccylf
wvbywmmcglywrrylxcylcudhyfiylxkhyrkmcvhcywvbykvlcrrcmljwrygufgculo
(luwbcdwu./mfgouksxl)ywsuccdcvlqyyKiyofjybfyvflywsuccylfywekbcyeoywrr
lxcylcudhyfiylxkhywsuccdcvl,yofjydjhlymcwhcyjhkvsywvbyucljuvyfuybchlufo
wrrymfgkchyfiyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.hykvyofjuygfhhchhkfvq
KiyofjygwkbywyiccyifuyfelwkvkvsywymfgoyfiyfuywmmchhylfywyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.ywvbyofjybfyvflywsuccylfyecyefjvbyeoylxc
lcudhyfiylxkhywsuccdcvl,yofjydwoyfelwkvywyucijvbyiufdylxcygcuhfvyfu
cvlkloylfyaxfdyofjygwkbylxcyiccywhyhclyifulxykvygwuwsuwgxy1qCq8q

1qEqyy"GufzcmlySjlcvecus"ykhywyucskhlcucbyluwbcdwu.qyyKlydwoyfvroyec
jhcbyfvyfuywhhfmkwlcbykvywvoyawoyaklxywvycrcmlufvkmyafu.yeoygcfgrcyaxf
wsuccylfyecyefjvbyeoylxcylcudhyfiylxkhywsuccdcvlqyyLxcucywucywyica
lxkvshylxwlyofjymwvybfyaklxydfhlyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.h
cpcvyaklxfjlymfdgrokvsyaklxylxcyijrrylcudhyfiylxkhywsuccdcvlqyyHcc
gwuwsuwgxy1qMyecrfaqyyLxcucywucywyrflyfiylxkvshyofjymwvybfyaklxyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.hykiyofjyifrrfaylxcylcudhyfiylxkhywsuccdcvl
wvbyxcrgyguchcupcyiuccyijljucywmmchhylfyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkm
afu.hqyyHccygwuwsuwgxy1qCyecrfaq

1qMqyyLxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfvy("lxcyIfjvbwlkfv"
fuyGSRWI),yfavhywymfdgkrwlkfvymfgouksxlykvylxcymfrrcmlkfvyfiyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.hqyyVcwuroywrrylxcykvbkpkbjwryafu.hykvylxc
mfrrcmlkfvywucykvylxcygjerkmybfdwkvykvylxcyJvklcbyHlwlchqyyKiywv
kvbkpkbjwryafu.ykhykvylxcygjerkmybfdwkvykvylxcyJvklcbyHlwlchywvbyofjywuc
rfmwlcbykvylxcyJvklcbyHlwlch,yacybfyvflymrwkdywyuksxlylfygucpcvlyofjyiufd
mfgokvs,ybkhlukejlkvs,ygcuifudkvs,ybkhgrwokvsyfuymucwlkvsybcukpwlkpc
afu.hyewhcbyfvylxcyafu.ywhyrfvsywhywrryucicucvmchylfyGufzcmlySjlcvecus
wucyucdfpcbqyyFiymfjuhc,yacyxfgcylxwlyofjyakrryhjggfulylxcyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldydkhhkfvyfiygufdflkvsyiuccywmmchhylfycrcmlufvkmyafu.hyeo
iuccroyhxwukvsyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyafu.hykvymfdgrkwvmcyaklxylxcylcudhyfi
lxkhywsuccdcvlyifuy.ccgkvsylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyvwdcywhhfmkwlcbyaklx
lxcyafu.qyyOfjymwvycwhkroymfdgroyaklxylxcylcudhyfiylxkhywsuccdcvlyeo
.ccgkvsylxkhyafu.ykvylxcyhwdcyifudwlyaklxyklhywllwmxcbyijrryGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldyRkmcvhcyaxcvyofjyhxwucyklyaklxfjlymxwuscyaklxyflxcuhq

1qBqyyLxcymfgouksxlyrwahyfiylxcygrwmcyaxcucyofjywucyrfmwlcbywrhfysfpcuv
axwlyofjymwvybfyaklxylxkhyafu.qyyMfgouksxlyrwahykvydfhlymfjvlukchywucykv
wymfvhlwvlyhlwlcyfiymxwvscqyyKiyofjywucyfjlhkbcylxcyJvklcbyHlwlch,ymxcm.
lxcyrwahyfiyofjuymfjvluoykvywbbklkfvylfylxcylcudhyfiylxkhywsuccdcvl
ecifucybfavrfwbkvs,ymfgokvs,ybkhgrwokvs,ygcuifudkvs,ybkhlukejlkvsyfu
mucwlkvsybcukpwlkpcyafu.hyewhcbyfvylxkhyafu.yfuywvoyflxcuyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldyafu.qyyLxcyIfjvbwlkfvydw.chyvfyucguchcvlwlkfvhymfvmcuvkvs
lxcymfgouksxlyhlwljhyfiywvoyafu.ykvywvoymfjvluoyfjlhkbcylxcyJvklcb
Hlwlchq

1qCqyyJvrchhyofjyxwpcyucdfpcbywrryucicucvmchylfyGufzcmlySjlcvecus:

1qCq1qyyLxcyifrrfakvsyhcvlcvmc,yaklxywmlkpcyrkv.hylf,yfuyflxcuykddcbkwlc
wmmchhylf,ylxcyijrryGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyRkmcvhcydjhlywggcwuygufdkvcvlro
axcvcpcuywvoymfgoyfiywyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyafu.y(wvoyafu.yfvyaxkmxylxc
gxuwhcy"GufzcmlySjlcvecus"ywggcwuh,yfuyaklxyaxkmxylxcygxuwhcy"Gufzcml
Sjlcvecus"ykhywhhfmkwlcb)ykhywmmchhcb,ybkhgrwocb,ygcuifudcb,ypkcacb,
mfgkcbyfuybkhlukejlcb:

LxkhycEff.ykhyifuylxcyjhcyfiywvofvcywvoaxcucywlyvfymfhlywvbyaklx
wrdfhlyvfyuchlukmlkfvhyaxwlhfcpcuqyyOfjydwoymfgoykl,yskpcyklywawoyfu
uc-jhcyklyjvbcuylxcylcudhyfiylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRkmcvhcykvmrjbcb
aklxylxkhycEff.yfuyfvrkvcywlyaaaqsjlcvecusqfus

1qCq2qyyKiywvykvbkpkbjwryGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.ykhybcukpcb
iufdylxcygjerkmybfdwkvy(bfchyvflymfvlwkvywyvflkmcykvbkmwlkvsylxwlyklykh
gfhlcbyaklxygcudkhhkfvyfiylxcymfgouksxlyxfrbcu),ylxcyafu.ymwvyecymfgkcb
wvbybkhlukejlcbylfywvofvcykvylxcyJvklcbyHlwlchyaklxfjlygwokvsywvoyicch
fuymxwuschqyyKiyofjywucyucbkhlukejlkvsyfuygufpkbkvsywmmchhylfywyafu.
aklxylxcygxuwhcy"GufzcmlySjlcvecus"ywhhfmkwlcbyaklxyfuywggcwukvsyfvylxc
afu.,yofjydjhlymfdgroycklxcuyaklxylxcyucnjkucdcvlhyfiygwuwsuwgxhy1qCq1
lxufjsxy1qCq7yfuyfelwkvygcudkhhkfvyifuylxcyjhcyfiylxcyafu.ywvbylxc
GufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyluwbcdwu.ywhyhclyifulxykvygwuwsuwgxhy1qCq8yfu
1qCq9q

1qCq3qyyKiywvykvbkpkbjwryGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.ykhygfhlcb
aklxylxcygcudkhhkfvyfiylxcymfgouksxlyxfrbcu,yofjuyjhcywvbybkhlukejlkfv
djhlymfdgroyaklxyeflxygwuwsuwgxhy1qCq1ylxufjsxy1qCq7ywvbywvoywbbklkfvwr
lcudhykdgfhcbyeoylxcymfgouksxlyxfrbcuqyyWbbklkfvwrylcudhyakrryecyrkv.cb
lfylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyRkmcvhcyifuywrryafu.hygfhlcbyaklxylxc
gcudkhhkfvyfiylxcymfgouksxlyxfrbcuyifjvbywlylxcyecskvvkvsyfiylxkhyafu.q

1qCq4qyyBfyvflyjvrkv.yfuybclwmxyfuyucdfpcylxcyijrryGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
Rkmcvhcylcudhyiufdylxkhyafu.,yfuywvoyikrchymfvlwkvkvsywygwulyfiylxkh
afu.yfuywvoyflxcuyafu.ywhhfmkwlcbyaklxyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldq

1qCq5qyyBfyvflymfgo,ybkhgrwo,ygcuifud,ybkhlukejlcyfuyucbkhlukejlcylxkh
crcmlufvkmyafu.,yfuywvoygwulyfiylxkhycrcmlufvkmyafu.,yaklxfjl
gufdkvcvlroybkhgrwokvsylxcyhcvlcvmcyhclyifulxykvygwuwsuwgxy1qCq1yaklx
wmlkpcyrkv.hyfuykddcbkwlcywmmchhylfylxcyijrrylcudhyfiylxcyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldyRkmcvhcq

1qCq6qyyOfjydwoymfvpculylfywvbybkhlukejlcylxkhyafu.ykvywvoyekvwuo,
mfdguchhcb,ydwu.cbyjg,yvfvgufgukclwuoyfuygufgukclwuoyifud,ykvmrjbkvsywvo
afubygufmchhkvsyfuyxogculc lyifudqyyXfacpcu,ykiyofjygufpkbcywmmchhylfyfu
bkhlukejlcymfgkchyfiywyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyafu.ykvywyifudwlyflxcuylxwv
"GrwkvyPwvkrrwyWHMKK"yfuyflxcuyifudwlyjhcbykvylxcyfiikmkwrypcuhkfv
gfhlcbyfvylxcyfiikmkwryGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyaceyhklcy(aaaqsjlcvecusqfus),
ofjydjhl,ywlyvfywbbklkfvwrymfhl,yiccyfuyc gcvhcylfylxcyjhcu,ygufpkbcyw
mfgo,ywydcwvhyfiyc gfulkvsywymfgo,yfuywydcwvhyfiyfelwkvkvsywymfgoyjgfv
ucnjchl,yfiylxcyafu.ykvyklhyfukskvwry"GrwkvyPwvkrrwyWHMKK"yfuyflxcu
ifudqyyWvoywrlcuvwlcyifudwlydjhlykvmrjbcylxcyijrryGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
Rkmcvhcywhyhgcmkikcbykvygwuwsuwgxy1qCq1q

1qCq7qyyBfyvflymxwuscywyiccyifuywmmchhylf,ypkcakvs,ybkhgrwokvs,
gcuifudkvs,ymfgokvsyfuybkhlukejlkvsywvoyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyafu.h
jvrchhyofjymfdgroyaklxygwuwsuwgxy1qCq8yfuy1qCq9q

1qCq8qyyOfjydwoymxwuscywyucwhfvwercyiccyifuymfgkchyfiyfuygufpkbkvs
wmmchhylfyfuybkhlukejlkvsyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.hygufpkbcb
lxwl

-yOfjygwoywyufowrloyiccyfiy20%yfiylxcysufhhygufiklhyofjybcukpcyiufd
yyyyylxcyjhcyfiyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyafu.hymwrmjrwlcbyjhkvsylxcydclxfb
yyyyyofjywrucwboyjhcylfymwrmjrwlcyofjuywggrkmwercylw chqyyLxcyiccykh
yyyyyfacbylfylxcyfavcuyfiylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyluwbcdwu.,yejlyxc
yyyyyxwhywsuccbylfybfvwlcyufowrlkchyjvbcuylxkhygwuwsuwgxylfylxc
yyyyyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfvqyyUfowrloygwodcvlh
yyyyydjhlyecygwkbyaklxkvy60ybwohyifrrfakvsycwmxybwlcyfvyaxkmxyofj
yyyyygucgwucy(fuywucyrcswrroyucnjkucbylfygucgwuc)yofjuygcukfbkmylw 
yyyyyucljuvhqyyUfowrloygwodcvlhyhxfjrbyecymrcwuroydwu.cbywhyhjmxywvb
yyyyyhcvlylfylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfvywlylxc
yyyyywbbuchhyhgcmkikcbykvyHcmlkfvy4,y"Kvifudwlkfvywefjlybfvwlkfvhylf
yyyyylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfvq"

-yOfjygufpkbcywyijrryucijvbyfiywvoydfvcoygwkbyeoywyjhcuyaxfyvflkikch
yyyyyofjykvyauklkvsy(fuyeoyc-dwkr)yaklxkvy30ybwohyfiyucmckglylxwlyh/xc
yyyyybfchyvflywsuccylfylxcylcudhyfiylxcyijrryGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
yyyyyRkmcvhcqyyOfjydjhlyucnjkucyhjmxywyjhcuylfyucljuvyfu
yyyyybchlufoywrrymfgkchyfiylxcyafu.hygfhhchhcbykvywygxohkmwrydcbkjd
yyyyywvbybkhmfvlkvjcywrryjhcyfiywvbywrrywmmchhylfyflxcuymfgkchyfi
yyyyyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyafu.hq

-yOfjygufpkbc,ykvywmmfubwvmcyaklxygwuwsuwgxy1qIq3,ywyijrryucijvbyfiywvo
yyyyydfvcoygwkbyifuywyafu.yfuywyucgrwmcdcvlymfgo,ykiywybcicmlykvylxc
yyyyycrcmlufvkmyafu.ykhybkhmfpcucbywvbyucgfulcbylfyofjyaklxkvy90ybwoh
yyyyyfiyucmckglyfiylxcyafu.q

-yOfjymfdgroyaklxywrryflxcuylcudhyfiylxkhywsuccdcvlyifuyiucc
yyyyybkhlukejlkfvyfiyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyafu.hq

1qCq9qyyKiyofjyakhxylfymxwuscywyiccyfuybkhlukejlcywyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
crcmlufvkmyafu.yfuysufjgyfiyafu.hyfvybkiicucvlylcudhylxwvywucyhcl
ifulxykvylxkhywsuccdcvl,yofjydjhlyfelwkvygcudkhhkfvykvyauklkvsyiufd
eflxylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfvywvbyDkmxwcr
Xwul,ylxcyfavcuyfiylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyluwbcdwu.qyyMfvlwmlylxc
IfjvbwlkfvywhyhclyifulxykvyHcmlkfvy3yecrfaq

1qIq

1qIq1qyyGufzcmlySjlcvecusypfrjvlccuhywvbycdgrfocchyc gcvbymfvhkbcuwerc
ciifulylfykbcvlkio,ybfymfgouksxlyuchcwumxyfv,yluwvhmukecywvbyguffiucwb
gjerkmybfdwkvyafu.hykvymucwlkvsylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
mfrrcmlkfvqyyBchgklcylxchcyciifulh,yGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkm
afu.h,ywvbylxcydcbkjdyfvyaxkmxylxcoydwoyecyhlfucb,ydwoymfvlwkv
"Bcicmlh,"yhjmxywh,yejlyvflyrkdklcbylf,ykvmfdgrclc,ykvwmmjuwlcyfu
mfuujglybwlw,yluwvhmukglkfvycuufuh,ywymfgouksxlyfuyflxcuykvlcrrcmljwr
gufgculoykviukvscdcvl,ywybcicmlkpcyfuybwdwscbybkh.yfuyflxcuydcbkjd,yw
mfdgjlcuypkujh,yfuymfdgjlcuymfbchylxwlybwdwscyfuymwvvflyecyucwbyeo
ofjuycnjkgdcvlq

1qIq2qyyRKDKLCByAWUUWVLO,yBKHMRWKDCUyFIyBWDWSCHy-yC mcglyifuylxcy"Uksxl
fiyUcgrwmcdcvlyfuyUcijvb"ybchmukecbykvygwuwsuwgxy1qIq3,ylxcyGufzcml
SjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfv,ylxcyfavcuyfiylxcyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldyluwbcdwu.,ywvbywvoyflxcuygwuloybkhlukejlkvsywyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.yjvbcuylxkhywsuccdcvl,ybkhmrwkdywrr
rkwekrkloylfyofjyifuybwdwsch,ymfhlhywvbyc gcvhch,ykvmrjbkvsyrcswr
icchqyyOFJyWSUCCyLXWLyOFJyXWPCyVFyUCDCBKCHyIFUyVCSRKSCVMC,yHLUKML
RKWEKRKLO,yEUCWMXyFIyAWUUWVLOyFUyEUCWMXyFIyMFVLUWMLyC MCGLyLXFHC
GUFPKBCByKVyGWUWSUWGXyI3qyyOFJyWSUCCyLXWLyLXCyIFJVBWLKFV,yLXC
LUWBCDWU.yFAVCU,yWVByWVOyBKHLUKEJLFUyJVBCUyLXKHyWSUCCDCVLyAKRRyVFLyEC
RKWERCyLFyOFJyIFUyWMLJWR,yBKUCML,yKVBKUCML,yMFVHCNJCVLKWR,yGJVKLKPCyFU
KVMKBCVLWRyBWDWSCHyCPCVyKIyOFJySKPCyVFLKMCyFIyLXCyGFHHKEKRKLOyFIyHJMX
BWDWSCq

1qIq3qyyRKDKLCByUKSXLyFIyUCGRWMCDCVLyFUyUCIJVBy-yKiyofjybkhmfpcuyw
bcicmlykvylxkhycrcmlufvkmyafu.yaklxkvy90ybwohyfiyucmckpkvsykl,yofjymwv
ucmckpcywyucijvbyfiylxcydfvcoy(kiywvo)yofjygwkbyifuyklyeoyhcvbkvsyw
aukllcvyc grwvwlkfvylfylxcygcuhfvyofjyucmckpcbylxcyafu.yiufdqyyKiyofj
ucmckpcbylxcyafu.yfvywygxohkmwrydcbkjd,yofjydjhlyucljuvylxcydcbkjdyaklx
ofjuyaukllcvyc grwvwlkfvqyyLxcygcuhfvyfuycvlkloylxwlygufpkbcbyofjyaklx
lxcybcicmlkpcyafu.ydwoycrcmlylfygufpkbcywyucgrwmcdcvlymfgoykvyrkcjyfiyw
ucijvbqyyKiyofjyucmckpcbylxcyafu.ycrcmlufvkmwrro,ylxcygcuhfvyfuycvlklo
gufpkbkvsyklylfyofjydwoymxffhcylfyskpcyofjywyhcmfvbyfggfuljvkloylf
ucmckpcylxcyafu.ycrcmlufvkmwrroykvyrkcjyfiywyucijvbqyyKiylxcyhcmfvbymfgo
khywrhfybcicmlkpc,yofjydwoybcdwvbywyucijvbykvyauklkvsyaklxfjlyijulxcu
fggfuljvklkchylfyik ylxcygufercdq

1qIq4qyyC mcglyifuylxcyrkdklcbyuksxlyfiyucgrwmcdcvlyfuyucijvbyhclyifulx
kvygwuwsuwgxy1qIq3,ylxkhyafu.ykhygufpkbcbylfyofjy'WH-KH'yAKLXyVFyFLXCU
AWUUWVLKCHyFIyWVOy.KVB,yC GUCHHyFUyKDGRKCB,yKVMRJBKVSyEJLyVFLyRKDKLCByLF
AWUUWVLKCHyFIyDCUMXWVLKEKRKLOyFUyIKLVCHHyIFUyWVOyGJUGFHCq

1qIq5qyyHfdcyhlwlchybfyvflywrrfaybkhmrwkdcuhyfiymculwkvykdgrkcb
awuuwvlkchyfuylxcyc mrjhkfvyfuyrkdklwlkfvyfiymculwkvylogchyfiybwdwschq
Kiywvoybkhmrwkdcuyfuyrkdklwlkfvyhclyifulxykvylxkhywsuccdcvlypkfrwlchylxc
rwayfiylxcyhlwlcywggrkmwercylfylxkhywsuccdcvl,ylxcywsuccdcvlyhxwrryec
kvlcuguclcbylfydw.cylxcydw kdjdybkhmrwkdcuyfuyrkdklwlkfvygcudkllcbyeo
lxcywggrkmwercyhlwlcyrwaqyyLxcykvpwrkbkloyfuyjvcvifumcwekrkloyfiywvo
gufpkhkfvyfiylxkhywsuccdcvlyhxwrryvflypfkbylxcyucdwkvkvsygufpkhkfvhq

1qIq6qyyKVBCDVKLOy-yOfjywsuccylfykvbcdvkioywvbyxfrbylxcyIfjvbwlkfv,ylxc
luwbcdwu.yfavcu,ywvoywscvlyfuycdgrfoccyfiylxcyIfjvbwlkfv,ywvofvc
gufpkbkvsymfgkchyfiyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.hykvywmmfubwvmc
aklxylxkhywsuccdcvl,ywvbywvoypfrjvlccuhywhhfmkwlcbyaklxylxcygufbjmlkfv,
gufdflkfvywvbybkhlukejlkfvyfiyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkmyafu.h,
xwudrchhyiufdywrryrkwekrklo,ymfhlhywvbyc gcvhch,ykvmrjbkvsyrcswryicch,
lxwlywukhcybkucmlroyfuykvbkucmlroyiufdywvoyfiylxcyifrrfakvsyaxkmxyofjybf
fuymwjhcylfyfmmju:y(w)ybkhlukejlkfvyfiylxkhyfuywvoyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
afu.,y(e)ywrlcuwlkfv,ydfbkikmwlkfv,yfuywbbklkfvhyfuybcrclkfvhylfywvo
GufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldyafu.,ywvby(m)ywvoyBcicmlyofjymwjhcq


Hcmlkfvyy2qyyKvifudwlkfvywefjlylxcyDkhhkfvyfiyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld

GufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldykhyhovfvodfjhyaklxylxcyiuccybkhlukejlkfvyfi
crcmlufvkmyafu.hykvyifudwlhyucwbwercyeoylxcyakbchlypwukcloyfiymfdgjlcuh
kvmrjbkvsyfehfrclc,yfrb,ydkbbrc-wscbywvbyvcaymfdgjlcuhqyyKlyc khlh
ecmwjhcyfiylxcyciifulhyfiyxjvbucbhyfiypfrjvlccuhywvbybfvwlkfvhyiufd
gcfgrcykvywrryawr.hyfiyrkicq

Pfrjvlccuhywvbyikvwvmkwryhjggfulylfygufpkbcypfrjvlccuhyaklxylxc
whhkhlwvmcylxcoyvccb,ykhymuklkmwrylfyucwmxkvsyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld'h
sfwrhywvbycvhjukvsylxwlylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldymfrrcmlkfvyakrr
ucdwkvyiuccroywpwkrwercyifuyscvcuwlkfvhylfymfdcqyyKvy2001,ylxcyGufzcml
SjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfvyawhymucwlcbylfygufpkbcywyhcmjuc
wvbygcudwvcvlyijljucyifuyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldywvbyijljucyscvcuwlkfvhq
LfyrcwuvydfucywefjlylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfv
wvbyxfayofjuyciifulhywvbybfvwlkfvhymwvyxcrg,yhccyHcmlkfvhy3ywvby4
wvbylxcyIfjvbwlkfvyaceygwscywlyxllg://aaaqgsrwiqfusq


Hcmlkfvy3qyyKvifudwlkfvywefjlylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpc
Ifjvbwlkfv

LxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfvykhywyvfvygufikl
501(m)(3)ycbjmwlkfvwrymfugfuwlkfvyfuswvktcbyjvbcuylxcyrwahyfiylxc
hlwlcyfiyDkhhkhhkggkywvbysuwvlcbylw yc cdglyhlwljhyeoylxcyKvlcuvwr
UcpcvjcyHcupkmcqyyLxcyIfjvbwlkfv'hyCKVyfuyicbcuwrylw ykbcvlkikmwlkfv
vjdecuykhy64-6221541qyyKlhy501(m)(3)yrcllcuykhygfhlcbywl
xllg://gsrwiqfus/ijvbuwkhkvsqyyMfvlukejlkfvhylfylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus
RklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfvywucylw ybcbjmlkercylfylxcyijrryc lcvl
gcudkllcbyeoyJqHqyicbcuwryrwahywvbyofjuyhlwlc'hyrwahq

LxcyIfjvbwlkfv'hygukvmkgwryfiikmcykhyrfmwlcbywly4557yDcrwvyBuqyHq
Iwkuewv.h,yW.,y99712q,yejlyklhypfrjvlccuhywvbycdgrfocchywucyhmwllcucb
lxufjsxfjlyvjdcufjhyrfmwlkfvhqyyKlhyejhkvchhyfiikmcykhyrfmwlcbywl
809yVfulxy1500yAchl,yHwrlyRw.cyMklo,yJLy84116,y(801)y596-1887,ycdwkr
ejhkvchh@gsrwiqfusqyyCdwkrymfvlwmlyrkv.hywvbyjgylfybwlcymfvlwml
kvifudwlkfvymwvyecyifjvbywlylxcyIfjvbwlkfv'hyaceyhklcywvbyfiikmkwr
gwscywlyxllg://gsrwiqfus

Ifuywbbklkfvwrymfvlwmlykvifudwlkfv:
yyyyyBuqySucsfuoyEqyVcaeo
yyyyyMxkciyC cmjlkpcywvbyBkucmlfu
yyyyysevcaeo@gsrwiqfus


Hcmlkfvy4qyyKvifudwlkfvywefjlyBfvwlkfvhylfylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus
RklcuwuoyWumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfv

GufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldybcgcvbhyjgfvywvbymwvvflyhjupkpcyaklxfjlyakbc
hgucwbygjerkmyhjggfulywvbybfvwlkfvhylfymwuuoyfjlyklhydkhhkfvyfi
kvmucwhkvsylxcyvjdecuyfiygjerkmybfdwkvywvbyrkmcvhcbyafu.hylxwlymwvyec
iuccroybkhlukejlcbykvydwmxkvcyucwbwercyifudywmmchhkercyeoylxcyakbchl
wuuwoyfiycnjkgdcvlykvmrjbkvsyfjlbwlcbycnjkgdcvlqyyDwvoyhdwrrybfvwlkfvh
($1ylfy$5,000)ywucygwulkmjrwuroykdgfulwvlylfydwkvlwkvkvsylw yc cdgl
hlwljhyaklxylxcyKUHq

LxcyIfjvbwlkfvykhymfddkllcbylfymfdgrokvsyaklxylxcyrwahyucsjrwlkvs
mxwuklkchywvbymxwuklwercybfvwlkfvhykvywrry50yhlwlchyfiylxcyJvklcb
HlwlchqyyMfdgrkwvmcyucnjkucdcvlhywucyvflyjvkifudywvbyklylw.chyw
mfvhkbcuwercyciiful,ydjmxygwgcuafu.ywvbydwvoyicchylfydcclywvby.ccgyjg
aklxylxchcyucnjkucdcvlhqyyAcybfyvflyhfrkmklybfvwlkfvhykvyrfmwlkfvh
axcucyacyxwpcyvflyucmckpcbyaukllcvymfvikudwlkfvyfiymfdgrkwvmcqyyLf
HCVByBFVWLKFVHyfuybclcudkvcylxcyhlwljhyfiymfdgrkwvmcyifuywvo
gwulkmjrwuyhlwlcypkhklyxllg://gsrwiqfus

Axkrcyacymwvvflywvbybfyvflyhfrkmklymfvlukejlkfvhyiufdyhlwlchyaxcucyac
xwpcyvflydclylxcyhfrkmklwlkfvyucnjkucdcvlh,yacy.vfayfiyvfygufxkeklkfv
wswkvhlywmmcglkvsyjvhfrkmklcbybfvwlkfvhyiufdybfvfuhykvyhjmxyhlwlchyaxf
wggufwmxyjhyaklxyfiicuhylfybfvwlcq

Kvlcuvwlkfvwrybfvwlkfvhywucysuwlcijrroywmmcglcb,yejlyacymwvvflydw.c
wvoyhlwlcdcvlhymfvmcuvkvsylw ylucwldcvlyfiybfvwlkfvhyucmckpcbyiufd
fjlhkbcylxcyJvklcbyHlwlchqyyJqHqyrwahywrfvcyhawdgyfjuyhdwrryhlwiiq

Grcwhcymxcm.ylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyAceygwschyifuymjuucvlybfvwlkfv
dclxfbhywvbywbbuchhchqyyBfvwlkfvhywucywmmcglcbykvywyvjdecuyfiyflxcu
awohykvmrjbkvsymxcm.h,yfvrkvcygwodcvlhywvbymucbklymwubybfvwlkfvhq
Lfybfvwlc,ygrcwhcypkhkl:yxllg://gsrwiqfus/bfvwlc


Hcmlkfvy5qyyScvcuwryKvifudwlkfvyWefjlyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycrcmlufvkm
afu.hq

GufichhfuyDkmxwcryHqyXwulykhylxcyfukskvwlfuyfiylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld
mfvmcglyfiywyrkeuwuoyfiycrcmlufvkmyafu.hylxwlymfjrbyecyiuccroyhxwucb
aklxywvofvcqyyIfuylxkuloyocwuh,yxcygufbjmcbywvbybkhlukejlcbyGufzcml
Sjlcvecus-ldycEff.hyaklxyfvroywyrffhcyvclafu.yfiypfrjvlccuyhjggfulq


GufzcmlySjlcvecus-ldycEff.hywucyfilcvymucwlcbyiufdyhcpcuwrygukvlcb
cbklkfvh,ywrryfiyaxkmxywucymfvikudcbywhyGjerkmyBfdwkvykvylxcyJqHq
jvrchhywymfgouksxlyvflkmcykhykvmrjbcbqyyLxjh,yacybfyvflyvcmchhwukro
.ccgycEff.hykvymfdgrkwvmcyaklxywvoygwulkmjrwuygwgcuycbklkfvq


DfhlygcfgrcyhlwulywlyfjuyAceyhklcyaxkmxyxwhylxcydwkvyGSyhcwumxyiwmkrklo:

yyyyyxllg://aaaqsjlcvecusqfus

LxkhyAceyhklcykvmrjbchykvifudwlkfvywefjlyGufzcmlySjlcvecus-ld,
kvmrjbkvsyxfaylfydw.cybfvwlkfvhylfylxcyGufzcmlySjlcvecusyRklcuwuo
WumxkpcyIfjvbwlkfv,yxfaylfyxcrgygufbjmcyfjuyvcaycEff.h,ywvbyxfaylf
hjehmukecylfyfjuycdwkryvcahrcllcuylfyxcwuywefjlyvcaycEff.hq
