SqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyO.jjiyjhyVoalcxsnyGtmz,y.nyRjvogqyHmccott

Sqxvyo.jjiyxvyhjcysqoylvoyjhymznjzoymzn qocoymsyzjyajvsymzpy xsq
mtujvsyzjycovscxasxjzvy qmsvjofocwyyNjlyumnyajgnyxs,ykxfoyxsym mnyjc
co-lvoyxsylzpocysqoysocuvyjhysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxaozvoyxzatlpop
 xsqysqxvyo.jjiyjcyjztxzoymsy   wklsoz.ockwjck/txaozvo


Sxsto:yVoalcxsnyGtmz

Mlsqjc:yRjvogqyHmccott

CotomvoyPmso:yUmcaqy28,y2016y[O.jjiy#51588]

Tmzklmko:yOzktxvq


***yVSMCSyJHySQXVyGCJROASyKLSOZ.OCKyO.JJIyVOALCXSNyGTMZy***




Gcjplaopy.nyKcoky ooiv,yUmcnyUooqmzymzpysqoyJztxzo
Pxvscx.lsopyGcjjhcompxzkySomuymsyqssg://   wgkpgwzos









yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyVoalcxsnyGtmz

yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy.nyRJVOGQyHMCCOTT

yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyXttlvscmsopy.ny JJP

yyyyyyyyyyy[Scmzvacx.oc'vyZjso:ySqxvyosoesy mvygcjplaopyhcju
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyKmtmenyUmkmdxzoyMgcxty1959w
yyyyyyyyyOesozvxfoycovomcaqypxpyzjsylzajfocymznyofxpozaoysqms
yyyyyyyyysqoyLwVwyajgncxkqsyjzysqxvygl.txamsxjzy mvycozo opw]




yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyXyqmpyvjuosqxzky.ossocysqmzyxzfovsxzkyhjc
yyyyyyyyyyyyyysqoyhlslcoywwwysqoyhlslcoyxzfovsxzkyxzyuo!


"Unyujsqocy mczopyuo,"yUmcxtnzyvmxpymkmxz,y"sjysqxziys xaoy.ohjcoyX
umccxopymyaqxtpygcjpxknwyTjjiyhjcyvjuo.jpnykjjpymzpyvjtxp,yvqoyvmxp,
txioyPmp--vjuo.jpny qjy xttyglsyvjuosqxzkym mnyhjcynjlcyjtpymkow"

Xysmggopymyscmzvxvsjc,yglsymyvaco pcxfocymacjvvymygmxcyjhy xcovymzp
 msaqopysqoyvgmciwyUmcxtnzy mvyrlvsysmtixzkysjygmvvysqoysxuowyVqo
comttnytjfovyuoymzpypjovz'syuxzpysjjyulaqysqmsyXyvgozpyunyvgmcoysxuo
mzpyujzony.lxtpxzkymysxuoyumaqxzowyVjuosxuovyvqoyofozy.otxofovysqmsyxs
uxkqsy jciw

Vqoyiogsysmtixzkwy"X'foy.oozysqxzixzk-- o'coygmvsysqxcsnyzj ymzp
 qmsypjy oyqmfo?yMytomvoyjzymycovsmlcmzsy qocoyzj.jpnyomsv,ymzpym
sxuoyumaqxzoysqmsypjovz'sy jciw"yVqoyvxkqopwy"Mzpymypcm ochltyjh
gm zysxaiosvy o'ttyzofocy.oym.toysjycopoouwyUnyvxtfoc,yunyamuocm,yun
sngo cxsocwwww"

Xymppopymykcj tysjyqocyvxkqwy"Unyuxacjvajgo,yunyjsqocyoblxguozswwww"

"LzatoyRjqzvjzy xttyqmfoysqouyhjcy_qxv_yjtpymko,"yvqoyvmxpyvmptnwy"Mzp
 o'tty.oytlainyxhy oyqmfoy_mznsqxzk_w"

XyhotsymygmzkyjhycovozsuozswyLzatoyRjqzvjz!yXsyvoouopysqmsyofocnysxuoyX
mablxcopyvjuosqxzk,yLzatoyRjqzvjzyvjjzyamuoyxzsjygjvvovvxjzyjhyxswy o'p
.oozyixpvysjkosqoc,ymtsqjlkqyqoy mvyblxsoymyho ynomcvyjtpoc,ymyqltixzk
tjlsyxzysqoyvxesqykcmpoy qxtoyXy mvyxzysqoyhxcvs,ymzpyXykcmplmsopyhcju
kcmuumcyvaqjjtymysocuymqompyjhyqxuwyJhyajlcvoyXy ozsyjzysjyqxkqyvaqjjt
mzpyqmpymyajttokoypokcooymsyhxhsooz,y.oxzkymygcjpxknwyRjqzvjzy ozsysj
 jciyxzyqxvylzato'vygm zyvqjg,yv oogxzkysqoyhtjjcymzpyvjyjz,ymzpysqms'v
 qozy oyvsmcsopyamttxzkyqxuyLzatow

Sqxvy mvz'syulaqyjhymyrj.y.oamlvoyRjqzvjz'vylzatoykjsyqxuysjy jciyhjc
mtujvsyzjsqxzky.nygcjuxvxzkyqoy jltpytomfoyqxuysqoygm zyvqjgy qozyqo
pxopwyMzpyxsypxpz'sytjjiymvyxhyulaqy jltpyajuoyjhysqxv,y.oamlvoysqo
lzatoy mvyzjsyfocnyjtpymzpyqoy mvymt mnvysottxzkygojgtoymyumzyajltpz's
mhhjcpysjypxoysqovoypmnv,y qmsy xsqysqoygcxaovylzpocsmiocvy oco
aqmckxzkw

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

.ohjcoyXyqmpyofozyvsmcsopysjyvqmfo,yXyqmpymypjdozygmgocvygl.txvqopyxz
vaxozsxhxayrjlczmtv,ymttyqmfxzkysjypjy xsqysqoyzmslcoyjhysxuowySxuo
scmfoty.oamuoyunymu.xsxjzymzpyXy mvyvlcoyXyvm ymy mnysjy.lxtpymysxuo
umaqxzowy.lsyxsysjjiynomcvysjy jciyjlsysqoyposmxtv,ymzpyzj.jpnyvoouop
xzsocovsopyxzyuny jci,yvjyXyqmpysjypjyxsymttyunvothwyVjuoqj yXyvsjggop
 jcixzkytjzkyozjlkqysjykosymy xho,ymzpy oyqmpysjyomswyVjy oycmzysqxv
txsstoyqmvqyqjlvoymzpytxfopyxzysqoy.maiycjju,ymzpymsytomvsy oykjsyjlc
hjjpy qjtovmtow

MzpyRjqzvjz'vylzatoyhottypj zysqoyaottmcyvsmxcvymzpyvgtxsyqxvyviltt
jgozwyVjyRjqzvjzy.oamuoysqoyj zocyjhymysqcxfxzky.lvxzovvymhsocykxfxzk
qxvylzatoymyvxugtoyhlzocmt,y.oamlvoyqoyizo yqxvylzatoy jltpz'syqmfo
 mzsopyqxuysjy mvsoymznyujcoyujzonyjzysqmsysqmzyqoyqmpysjw

".lsy oyqmfoymysxuoyumaqxzo,"yUmcxtnzyvmxpyhjzptnwy"Sqms'vyvjuosqxzk
Rjqzvjzy jltpykxfoylvymytjsyjz--xhyxsy jciopw"

" oy_mtujvs_yqmfoymysxuoyumaqxzo,"yXyvmxp,ytjjixzkymcjlzpymsyunytxho'v
 jciwyJlcyixsaqozy mvysqoysxuoyumaqxzo,y xsqymykcomsy xzpxzkyjhy xcov
mcjlzpyxsysjyacomsoysqoyhxotpyXyqmpypofxvopwySqoypjjcvyqmpy.oozym
gcj.touysqmsyXyvjtfopy.nyumixzkysqouyxzsjyv xsaqov,yvjysqmsy qozysqon
 ocoyatjvopysqoyajxtvyumpoysqoyajugtosoyaxcalxsyjhysqoycjjuw

"Mtujvs,"yXycogomsopwy"Mhsocys ozsnynomcvyjhy jci,yXymuysqcjlkqyoeaogs
hjcymyho yvumttyxsouv--"

Xytjjiopymsyqocygtompxzktnw

"Xsy xttyclzym.jlsys ozsnypjttmcvwyPjynjlysqxzi--?"

Vqoypxpz'syamcoyulaqyhjcysqoyxpom,y.lsyhxzmttnyvqoyvtxpyjhhysqoy oppxzk
cxzkw

"Njl'ttycopoouysqxvyhxcvsysqxzk,ySop?y.ohjcoymznyjhysqoycovsyjhysqo
vslhh?"

Xygcjuxvopymzpysjjiyjhhymsymypompyclzw

Rjqzvjzypxpz'syqmfoysjyxzvgoasysqoycxzk;yqo'pyvoozyxsy.ohjco,ymzpyqo
ajlzsopyjlsys ozsnypjttmcvwySqmsy mvysqoyjztnyxsouyqo'pykxfoyuoym
poaozsygcxaoyjzwyQoyizo yX'py.oy.maiyhjcyxsw

"Qj 'vysqoysxuoyumaqxzoyajuxzkymtjzk,ySop?"yQoyqmpymytxsstoyvuxci,ysqo
 mnyvjuoygojgtoypjy qozysqonyqomcyX'uy.lxtpxzkymysxuoyumaqxzowy"Kosyxz
sjlaqy xsqyUmcvynos?"

"XyqmfoyzjyxzsocovsyxzyUmcv,"yXysjtpyqxuwy"Xygtmzysjyumioyajzsmasy xsq
sqoyhlslco--m.jlsysqxcsnynomcvyhcjuyzj wyMzpyhjcynjlcyxzhjcumsxjz,ysqo
sxuoyumaqxzoyxvygcmasxamttnyhxzxvqopwySqoyhxcvsysovsy xtty.oysjzxkqsw"

Qoy mvz'syvuxcixzkyzj ,y.oamlvoyqoyzofocyhjckjsysqoy mnyXygmvvopyqxu
xzyvaqjjtymzpyqoyqmpymykjjpycovgoasyhjcyuny.cmxzwyQoytjjiopymytxssto
sqjlkqshlt--jztnymytxssto,y.oamlvoysqms'vymttyqoy mvyamgm.toyjhw

"Njlykosysjysqoyhlslco,ySop,yvlggjvoynjly.cxzkyuoymyzo vgmgocwyX'tt
umioyxsy jcsqynjlcy qxtowyX'foymt mnvyscomsopynjlyhmxcymzpyvblmco,
Sop,yzj yqmfoz'syX?"

XytjjiopyjfocyqxvyvqotfovwySjjyumznyjhysqjvoyplvs-ajfocopyxsouvy oco
uxzowyMzpyXypxpz'syqmfoysjy.oymysotogmsqysjyizj y qmsyqoy mvysqxzixzkw

"Umn.oynjl'pytxioymygmgocy xsqysqoyvsjaiyumciosybljsmsxjzv,yLzato?yHcju
m.jlsysqxcsnynomcvyhcjuyzj ,yvmn?"

Sqoyvuxciy mvyajugtosotnykjzoyzj wy"Njlykosyvjuosqxzkytxioysqms,ySop,
X'ttygmnynjl!y jltpz'syqotgynjlyjlsymzn,y.oamlvoynjlyqmfoyzjsqxzkysj
xzfovswyUoyzj ,yXyajltpy.lnyvjuosqxzkysqmsy xttyioogyuoyxzyunyjtpymkow
X'pykxfoynjlym--qlzpcopy.laivyhjcyvjuosqxzkytxioysqmsw"

XytmlkqopymsyqxuwyMyqlzpcopypjttmcv!yLzatoymt mnvyqmpyqxvyzocfowyQoy mv
vaj txzky qozyXytohs,yvsxttyscnxzkysjyhxklcoyqj yqoyajltpykosyxzyjz
sqoykcmfn,y.oamlvoyjlsvxpoyjhyUmcxtnzyqoy mvysqoyjztnygocvjzy qjyofoc
sqjlkqsyXyuxkqsyvlaaoopw

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

Umcxtnzyajjiopypxzzocyhjcylvy qxtoyXy mvyglssxzkysqoyhxzmtysjlaqovyjz
sqoysxuoyumaqxzow

"Sjzxkqsy oyaoto.cmso,"yvqoyvmxpwy"Vsomiw"

Xsyvuottopy jzpochlt,y.lsysqoyjaamvxjzmty qxhhyjhyjdjzoyhcjuyun
oblxguozsy mvyujcoyoeaxsxzkwyX'pysjtpyUmcxtnzy oyqmpym.jlsymzyqjlc
.ohjcoyXyajltpyumioysqoysovs,y.lsy xsqyuny jcixzkyhmvsocysqmzyXyqmp
oegoasopymzpyqocykossxzky.oqxzpy xsqysqoyuomt,yvqoy mvyrlvsyglssxzk
sqoyvsomivyjzysqoysm.toy qozyXy mvypjzoy xsqysqoyumaqxzow

"Jq,y.lsytos'vyomsyhxcvs,ySop!"yvqoyvmxpw

"Xyajltpz'syoms!yMhsocyvjyulaqy jci--"yXyvsmcopyxzyhmvaxzmsxjzymsysqo
umvsocyv xsaq--sqoypjjcwy"Sqxvyxvyxs,yUmcxtnz!y qmsyX'foy.oozy jcixzk
sj mcpymttysqovoynomcv!"

Vqoyvm ysqoy mnyXyhotsymzpyumn.oyvqoy mvymytxsstoyoeaxsopyqocvothw

"Kjymqomp,ySop,"yvqoysjtpyuow

Xyatjvopysqoypjjcw

Sqocoy mvyujcoyjdjzoymzpymy.tlccxzkyxzysqoyuxpptoyjhysqoycjjuwy o
vsoggopym mnyhcjuysqoysqxaiovsyjhysqoy.tlccxzk,y qocoyvjuosqxzkyvoouop
sjy.oykmsqocxzkyvl.vsmzaow

Sqoyvjuosqxzk,y oyvjjzyvm ,y mvymyumzyvxssxzkyxzymyaqmxcyvlccjlzpopy.n
vscmzkoymggmcmslv,yujvsyjhy qxaqyXyajltpz'syklovvysqoyglcgjvoyjhwyXs
 mvymyfocnynjlzkyumz,y qozyXyajltpyvooyqxuy.ossoc,ygcj.m.tnyzxzosooz,
 omcxzky.cxkqsyatjsqovyxzy qmsyXyhxklcopyulvsy.oysqoyvsntoyjhy1989w

"Umz-j!"yqoyvmxpwy"Sqxvysxuoyumaqxzoyxvytj yHmqcozqoxs,yj-pmppn!yCxkqs
sjysqoy.jssju!yXs'vysqoypoogovs!"

Xy.txziopwy"GmctodyfjlvyHcmzamxv?"

Umcxtnzyvmxp,y"Xysqxziyqoyuomzvyqoytxiovyxswy.lsy qjyxvyqoymzpyrlvs
 qocoypxpyqoyajuoyhcju?"

SqoykmxtnypcovvopynjlsqykjsyjlsyjhysqoyaqmxcymzpyvuxtopymsylvwyOmaqyjh
qxvyvqjltpocvyqmpygmppxzkysqoyvxdoyjhymyhjjs.mttwyQxvyajmsysmgocopyhcju
hjlcyhoosy xpoymsysqoyvqjltpocvysjymysxkqstny.jlzpy mxvs,ysqoytmgotv
hcjuymyhjjsymsysqoysjgysjydocjwySqoyscjlvocvy xpozopyjlsysjy xpoyvsxhh
qjjgvysqmsyozpopyvxeyxzaqovym.jfoyqxvyvqjovwyMzpysqoyvqjov!y.lsyms
tomvsysqony ocoz'sycomttnymtxfo,ymvyXyqmpysqjlkqsymsyhxcvsw

"Qj yxvyxs,"ymviopyUmcxtnz,y"sqmsymyajjtyamsyhcjuysqoyhlslcoyajuovysj
fxvxsylvyxzymysxuoyumaqxzo?yXy jltpyoegoasymyujcoyvaqjtmctnysngow"

"Zjsyvj,ypjtt-jwySqoymzktoqompvypjz'sycomaqysqoycomtyvaxozaowySqo
vaxozsxvsygcjvy.otxofoysqmsymttyizj topkoyxvyizj zwySqonypotfoyzjsyxzsj
sqoyvl.-docjycokxjzvyjhysqjlkqswySqmsyxvypjzoy.nylvymumsolcvw"

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

Qoypxpymyvqjcsy.xsyjhyvnzajgmsopysmgymzpyxzscjplaopyqxuvothwy"Xymu
VjtxpyAqlaiyCxaqmcpv,ymu.mvvmpjcysjysqoygmvs,yajlcsovnyjhysqoyHcxpmn
Zxkqsy.lttyVovvxjzymzpyOegocxuozsmsxjzyVjaxosnw"

"Mcoysqonymttytxioynjl?"yXymviopw

"Zj,yj-pmppn-umzwyVjuoymcoypoog,yvjuoymcoyqxkqyjzysqoyvamto,y.lsymttyjh
sqouycomaqysjkosqocyjzyjzoysqxzk--sqonymttyhootysqmsysqoygcj-vaxozsxvsv
qmfoykcj zymzkltmcymzpytjvsysqoyvozvoyjhy jzpocwyVjy oykmsqocysjkosqoc
jzyHcxpmnyzxkqsvysjy jciyjzysqoyjhh-.omsyvxpoyjhyvaxozaowy oycompynjlc
.jjiv--xhynjlymcoySopyTmzkoc--?"

Xympuxssopyxsw

Qoypmzaopymycqnsquxayaxcatoymcjlzpyuo,yvsmcxzkyxzy qmsy mvyofxpozstn
mpjcmsxjz,ymzpyiogsyulculcxzk,y"Comaqysqmsypoogyumz!ySopyTmzkoc--sqo
hmsqocyjhysxuoyscmfot!yJ-umz-j!yPoog!yComtypoog!"

"Zj yvooyqoco,"yXyhxzmttny.cjioyxzwy"Pjz'sysqonysmtiyOzktxvqy qocoynjl
ajuoyhcju?yMzpyrlvsyqj ypjynjlyajuoysjy.oyqocoymzn mn?yXy.lxtsymysxuo
umaqxzoysjyscmfotyxzsjysqoyhlslco,ymzpyxzvsompyXykosynjlysottxzkyuoyqj 
poogyXymuwyMcoynjlyqocoyjcymuyXysqoco?"

"Njlymcoyqoco,yj-pmppn-.jn,ymzpyXymtvjymuyqocowy.ls,ysjyoegtmxzysqxv,
Xyumnyqmfoysjylvoyvjuoymzktoysmti,y qxaqyxvy qmsynjlyuomzy.nyOzktxvqw
 oycompynjlcy.jjiv-- qxaqymcoyajttoasjcv'yxsouv,y.nysqoy mn--mzpy o
poaxpopynjly ocoy mnylzpocysqoydocjyumci,yovgoaxmttny qozy oyvm ysqms
sqoymzktoqompvy jltpz'sysjlaqymznyjhynjlcyxpomvwyVjy oykjsysjkosqoc
mzpyumpoyjlcysxuoyumaqxzowy.lsyXymuyvmpysjycogjcs,ypjasjc-j,ysqmsynjlc
sqojcny mvymy.xsytovvysqmzys j-qlzpcop-goc-aozsyajccoaswySqocoy ocoym
ho yoccjcv,y qxaqy oyhjlzpw"

Xsy mvyvjuosqxzkyjhymyvqjaiysjyqomcysqxvyhlslcoycjai-mzp-cjttocysott
uoysqocoy ocoyuxvsmiovyxzyuny jci,ymzpyXyvsmcsopysjymckloy xsqyqxu
m.jlsyxswy.lsyqxvymssozsxjzy mvz'syjzysqoyajzfocvmsxjzwyQoy mvyvzxhhxzk
sqjlkqshlttn,ysqoysqxzkyqo'pyamttopyvozvoyjhy jzpocyvqxzxzkyxzyqxv
onovwyQoy mvytjjixzkymsysqoyvsomivyUmcxtnzyqmpyvosyjzysqoysm.tow

"Comaqysqms!"yqoyvmxp,ym opwy"Koz-njl- xzoyvjtxpyhtovq!yUmz-j!yX
qmfoz'syvoozymyvsomiytxioysqmsyxzymttyunyjhh-.omsytxho!"

Vjyzmslcmttny oyxzfxsopyqxuysjyvxsypj zymsysqoysm.toymzpyqoypxpz'syqmfo
sjy.oymviopyujcoysqmzyjzaowyXsyvoouopysqmsyhjjpy mvygcossnyoegozvxfoyxz
1991,y qxaqyxvysqoynomcyqoyamuoyhcju,ymzpy qmsysqocoy mvyjhyxsyujvstn
amuoyhcjuyhmasjcxovy qocoysqonyvqjfotopyvjny.omzvymzpynomvsyxzsjym
umaqxzoymzpyxsyamuoyjlsyuomsymsysqoyjsqocyozp,yxhynjlypxpz'syumioysjj
ulaqyhlvvym.jlsy qmsynjlyamttopyuomswy.lsy xsqyvjyulaqyjhysqoykjjpyhmcu
tmzpyclxzopy.nymsjuxayplvs,ymzpyvjyulaqyujcoyslczopyxzsjy.lxtpxzkytjsv
jzymaajlzsyjhysqoykcj xzkygjgltmsxjz,yxsy mvysqoy.ovsysqonyajltpypjw

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

 qozy oyqomcpysqxv,y oyglvqopysqoyvoajzpyvsomiyxzyhcjzsyjhyqxuymzpyqo
vqj opyqoy mvymykcj xzky.jny.nyhxzxvqxzkyofocnyvacmg,ymtjzky xsqym
pjl.toyjcpocyjhyHcozaqyhcxopvymzpyqmthymypjdozyomcvyjhyajczyjzysqoyaj.w
.lsyqoyqmpysjykxfoylgymhsocys jygxoaovyjhygxow

Qoyvmsy.maiyxzysqoyaqmxc,ygmssopyqxvyvsjumaqymzpytjjiopymvyxhyqoyqmp
rlvsy jzysqoyXcxvqyv oogvsmiovwyQoytjjiopymsysqoy.xkycohcxkocmsjcwy qoz
Umcxtnzyjgozopyxsysjyglsysqxzkvym mn,yqxvyonovymtujvsygjggopyjlsymsysqo
vxkqsyjhysqoyuomsyvsjcopysqocow

"Umz-j!"yqoyvmxpwy"Njlyulvsy.oycxaq!"

Umcxtnzytmlkqopwy"Zj,yzjsycxaq--hmcyhcjuyxswy oyjgocmsoymycovsmlcmzs
mzpysqms'vyjlcyvsjaiynjlyvoow"

"Jq,ypjtt-j!yXyvqjltpyzjsyqmfoyomsozyvjyulaqwy qmsypjynjlyaqmckoyhjcym
uomtytxioysqms?"

" oy jltpykosysqcooymzpymyqmthyhjcyomaqyjcpoc,"yXyvmxp,ypxgtjumsxamttn
zjsyuozsxjzxzkymttyqxvyvxpoyjcpocv,y"mtsqjlkqy oypjz'sykosyulaq
amccxmkoyscmpoyqocowy.lsypjz'sytosyxsy jccnynjlwyZjsqxzk'vysjjykjjpyhjc
myklovsyhcjuysqoyhlslcow"

"Sqcooymzpymyqmth?"yQoytjjiopymumdopwy" qn,yvlaqymyhoopy jltpy.cxzk
s ozsn-hxfoyjcysqxcsny qocoyXyajuoyhcju--xhynjlyajltpyhxzpyxs!yTosyuo
gmn,yj-pmppn-hcxozp,ymsytomvsynjlcygcxaow"

Mzpyqoyglttopyjlsyvjuoy.xttvwyXyvsmcsopysjyglvqysqouy.mai,yhjcyjh
ajlcvoyXy mvz'sykjxzkysjyvgjxtysqxvykcomsyujuozsyxzyunytxhoy.nymvixzkym
scmfotocyhcjuysqoyhlslcoysjygmnyhjcymyuomtw

.lsysqozyXyvm y qmsyqoy mvyscnxzkysjykxfoyuow

Xygxaiopylgysqoy.xttvymzpyvsmcopwyUmcxtnz'vyqompy mvyjfocyunyvqjltpoc
mzpyvqoy mvyvsmcxzkyrlvsymvyqmcpwyVqoysjjiyjzoyjlsyjhyunyqmzpw

"Xs'vyzjsycomt,"yvqoyvmxpwy"Sqoco'vyzjsysqmsyulaqyujzonyxzysqoy jctpw"

VqoyqmpysqoyhxfowyXyqmpysqoyjzovwySqoyhxfo-sqjlvmzpymzpysqo
jzo-sqjlvmzp-pjttmcy.xttv,ysqmsyxvwyXytjjiopylgymsyVjtxpyAqlaiyCxaqmcpvw

" qozynjlyvmxpysqmsyuomty jltpyajvsys ozsn-hxfoyjcysqxcsn,ypxpynjlyuomz
s ozsn-hxfoyjcysqxcsny_sqjlvmzp_?"

"Njlycomaqyuo,yumzwyXzhtmsxjz,ynjlyizj wyXs'vysoccx.towyXycouou.ocy qoz
mykooy jltpyioogysqoy.omsycjaixzkyxzymyrlioygmtmaoyhjcymzyqjlcwyZj ynjl
gmnyqmthymykooymyzlu.ocwyXs'vysoccx.tow"

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

Mhsocy oyoegtmxzopysjyqxuysqmsysqoyxzhtmsxjzy mvyofozy jcvoysqmzysqms,
qoypoaxpopyxsy mvyvjuosqxzkyujcoysqmzysoccx.towyXsyvoouvyqoyqmpz'sygmxp
ulaqymssozsxjzysjyujzonyxzyqxvynjlzkocypmnv,ysqjlkqyqoypxpycoamttyzj 
sqmsy qozyqoy mvyfocnyvumttyqo'py.oozym.toysjykosymykjjpyzxaiotyamzpn
.mcyhjcys ozsnypjttmcv,y.lsyqoyqmpz'syvoozymznsqxzkyvumttocysqmzym
qlzpcopyxzyvjuoysxuoyzj w

"Sqocoyvqjltpy.oymytm ymkmxzvsysqxvyvjcsyjhysqxzk,"yqoyvmxp
xzpxkzmzstnwy"Xs'vyozjlkqysjyslczymyumzyxzsjymzymzktoqomp,ysqoy mnysqon
ioogyglvqxzkylgysqoygcxaoyjhyhluovwyMzpy qmsysqonyaqmckoyhjcy.ltkn
Vmzpocvycoajcpv--"

Qoygxaiopylgysqoy.xttvymzpytjjiopymsysqouw

".lsyXysqxziyumn.oy oyamzyhxzpymy mnysjygcjhxsyjzysqxv,ypmppn-.jn!yX
qmfoymypoogysqjlkqs-- oyuou.ocvyjhysqoyHcxpmnyZxkqsy.lttyVovvxjzymzp
OegocxuozsmsxjzyVjaxosny xttyajuoysjynjlcycovsmlcmzsymzpygmnynjlyhxfo
koovyhjcymyvsomiypxzzoc,y qxaqyxvymyhxzoygcxaoyhjcynjly.lsyfocnytxssto
hjcylvwyXzysqmsy mn,y oy xttyomsykjjpyhjjpymzpynjly xttykmsqocymykjjp
.lzptoyjhysqoyvslhhyjhytxhow"

Sqocoy mvymysqlppxzkyzjxvoymsysqoy xzpj wyXytjjiopyjfocyblxaiwyVjuo.jpn
 mvyqmzkxzkyjzyjlsvxpo,yjhhy.mtmzao,ymvyxhyqoyqmpy.oozyvsmzpxzkyjzym
tmppocyjlsvxpoymzpyqmpyhmttozymkmxzvsysqoy xzpj w

Xycmzyhjcysqoypjjc,yhjckossxzkyxsy mvymyv xsaqwy.lsyVjtxpyAqlai
CxaqmcpvycomtxdopyxswyQoypxfopy.maiyxzsjyqxvyaqmxcymzpyamttop,y"Comaq
njlytmsoc,yj-pmppn!"yQoypxvmggomcopymvyXyglttopysqoypjjcyjgozw

Sqoyvlppozyhtmvqymvysqoysxuoyumaqxzoyvsjggopyjgocmsxzkycouxzpopyuo
m.jlsysqjvoyv xsaqovyjzysqoypjjc,y.lsyxsy mvysjjytmsoyzj wyXycmzyjls
mzpymcjlzpysqoyvxpoyrlvsyxzysxuoysjyvooymyhxklcoypxvmggomcxzkylgysqo
mttonwyVlcoyozjlkq,ysqocoy mvymytmppocymkmxzvsysqoy xzpj w

Xypxpz'sy.jsqocyaqmvxzkysqoyumzyfocnyhmc,y.oamlvo,ymhsocymyhmvsytjjiyms
qxu,yXyqmpymygcossnykjjpyxpomy qjyxsy mvwyX'pyvgomiysjyqxuytmsocw

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

UmcxtnzymzpyXyvmsymcjlzpytjjixzkymsysqoy.xky.xttvwySqony ocoysqoyvxdo
jhygcovozs-pmnyalccozan,ymzpy ocoy.omlsxhlttnyumpo,ymzpy jltpyqmfo
gmvvopyomvxtnyoeaogsyhjcymyho ysqxzkvwyVlaqymvysqmsy"Vocxovy1988"
xzvacx.opymtjzkvxpoysqoyvxkzmslcoyjhyXcfxzkyGwy mtajlcs,yVoacosmcnyjh
sqoyScomvlcnwyMzpysqoyScomvlcocyjhysqoyLzxsopyVsmsovyxzy1988y jltpy.o
IlclyQmujzjsjwyHcjuysqoyVsmsoyjhyQm mxx,yXy jzpocop,yjc--?

"Sqon'coyzjylvoysjylvymsymtt,"yvmxpyUmcxtnzwy"Lztovvy oyqjtpysqouylzsxt
1988wyXy mvysmtixzkym.jlsyvoalcxsnyhjcyjlcyjtpymkowyPjynjlyvlggjvo--?"

"Njlyhjckos,"yXyvmxp,y"sqmsyvsomiy xttyclzynjlys ozsn-hxfoyjcysqxcsn
sqjlvmzpyxzy1988wySqxvyxvykjxzkysjy.oymykcomsypxvmggjxzsuozsysjysqo
uou.ocvyjhysqoyHcxpmnyZxkqsy.lttyVovvxjzymzpyOegocxuozsmsxjzyVjaxosn,
.lsyXyhomcy oyulvsyoegtmxzysjyVjtxpyAqlaiyCxaqmcpvysqmsy oyrlvsyamzzjs
mhhjcpysjypjyulaqy.lvxzovvyjhysqxvysngow"

Xyglvqopymvxpoysqoyujzonymzpy.okmzysqxzixzkym.jlsyvjuoyjhysqoysqxzkv
sqoynjlsqyhcjuy1991yqmpysjtpyuowySqocoy ocoyqjtovyxzyunysqojcxov--m
tjsyjhyqjtovwySclo,yXyqmpyvlaaoopopyxzy.lxtpxzkymysxuoyumaqxzo,y.lsyX
ajltpyzofocykjymzngtmaoyxzyxswy.oamlvoysxuoyscmfoty mvygjvvx.toyjztn
.nyscmfotxzkyhcjuyjzoysxuoyumaqxzoysjymzjsqocwySqoymumsolcvyjhy1991,
izj xzkyhcjuyuny.jjivy(Xyulvsycouou.ocysjy cxsoysqou)ysqmsyXyqmpy.lxts
mysxuoyumaqxzoyxzy1959,y ocoym.toysjyumioyajzsmaswyVjtxpyAqlaiyCxaqmcpv
 mvyvotoasopy.nytjsyhcjuyvofocmtyfjtlzsoocvysjyscnysqoyumaqxzowyXyuos
sqoyjsqocyuou.ocvyjhysqoyVjaxosnytmsocymzpytomczopysqmsymzpymyzlu.ocyjh
jsqocysqxzkvyhcjuysqouw

SqoycomvjzyVjtxpyAqlaiyamuoy.maiyxzvsompyjhyunykjxzkyhjc mcpyumpoyvjtxp
vozvowyXyajltpyvooyxsyzj wyUnysxuoyumaqxzoyqmpyzofocyoexvsopyxzy1991w
Qxvyqmpyoexvsopyxzy1959,yjcymsytomvsyxsvygmcsvyqmpwyXyajltpyjfocajuo
sqmsygcj.tou--xhyXyqmpysqoyhlttygj ocyjhysqoyVlzyhjcyvofocmtyuxzlsovysj
 jciy xsq,ymzpymy mnysjyqmzptoyxswySqozyXyajltpyaqmzkoysqxzkvyvjysqms
unysxuoyumaqxzoy jltpyqmfoyoexvsopyxzysqoyhlslcowwww

Ofozysqoyfoc.ysozvovy ocoykjxzky cjzkyjzyuow

Sqovoymumsolcyoegocxuozsocv,yxsyvoouop,y ocoyajzvxpocopymy.xsyjzysqo
acmaigjsyvxpo,ysmixzkyvlaqygvolpj-vaxozaoymvyuxzoyvocxjlvtnwyZjs
izj xzkyozjlkqyvaxozaoysjycomtxdoysqmsysqoyxpomvyXy cjsoym.jlsy oco
xugjvvx.to,ymvymznygcjhovvxjzmtyvaxozsxvsy jltpyqmfo,ysqonyhjttj op
sqouysqcjlkqwySqonyscxopysjykosyxzysjlaqy xsqyuoyxzysqoxcysxuo,y.lsyX
 mvz'symfmxtm.to,y qxaqyvmfopyuoymzjsqocygmcmpjewyVlggjvoyXyqmpyrjxzop
sqoyVjaxosnymzpyajuoy.maiymvymyfjtlzsooc?

.lsyxsy mvyozajlcmkxzkysjyizj ysqoycomvjzyXy mvykjxzkysjy.o
lzmfmxtm.toyxzy1991wyUmcxtnzymzpyXyqmpykjzoyjzymyvoajzpyqjzonujjz--jz
sqoyhxcvsyajuuocaxmtygmvvozkocytxzocysjyUmcvw

"Mzpyvj,"yXysjtpyqoc,y"njlypjz'syqmfoysjy jccnym.jlsyvoalcxsnyxzynjlc
jtpymkowySxaiosvysjyUmcvyulvsyajvsymyho yscxttxjzypjttmcvwy oy jz'sy.o
gjjcw"

Umcxtnzy mvyvsxttytjjixzkymsysqoyalccozanyjhysqoyhlslcow

" oy xtty.o,"yvqoyvmxp,y"xhy oyioogyvottxzkyvsomiyhjcysqoygcxaoyjh
vjn-.omzyqmu.lckocwy.nysqoy mn,ySop,yXy jzpocy qjysqmsy mvymsysqo
 xzpj ?"

Sqoymzv ocyamuoysjyuoysqozwyXyglsysqoy.xttvyxzsjyunygjaiosymzpyixvvop
qocw

" oy xttyzjsyqmfoysjyomsyvjn-.omzyqmu.lckoc,yj-pjttwyMzpyXy xttysmio
njlysjyUmcvyhjcynjlcyvoajzpyqjzonujjz--mvyvjjzymvysqonyvsmcsygmvvozkoc
vocfxaowyXymuykjxzkyjlsysjyumioymypj zygmnuozsyjzysqoysxaiosvycxkqs
zj w"

yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*yyyyyyy*

LzatoyRjqzvjzysjjiysqoyktmvvyhcjuyqxvyonowyQoytjjiopyfocnysozvo,ytxioym
hxvqocumzy xsqymygcxdoyamsaqyjzymyfocnysqxzytxzow

"Xs'vykjjp,"yqoyvmxp,ymzpyqxvyfjxaoyscou.topymytxsstowy"X--vlggjvoynjlc
sxuoyumaqxzoy jciop?"

"Vlcgcxvop,ymcoynjl,yLzato?"

"Nov,ynovwy.lsyXyvooynjlcyvxslmsxjz,ySopwyNjl,yjhyajlcvo,yamz'symhhjcp
sjyqjtpysqovoyhjcysqxcsnynomcvwyZj --mq--XyamzwyMzpyX'tty.oyktmpysj
qotgynjlyjlsy.nysmixzkysqouyjhhynjlcyqmzpvwyZmslcmttnyXyqmfoysjyqjtp
sqouymytjzkysxuo,yvj--tos'vyvmnys ozsnypjttmcvymysqjlvmzp?"

"Tos'vyzjsyvmnysqmsw"yXysjjiysqoy.xttyhcjuyqxvyqmzpwy"Xyhxklcoyhxhsn
xvymyhmxcygcxaowySqoco'tty.oytjsvyujco,yLzatowyMzp,ymvynjlyvmn,yXymu
mt mnvy.cjioymzpyamzzjsymhhjcpysjyglsysqouym mnyhjcyunyjtpymkowy.ls
clzzxzkysqoysxuoyumaqxzoyxvyoegozvxfoymzpyXyamz'symhhjcpysjysmioytovv
sqmzyhxhsnw"

Qoytjjiopymvyxhyqoy ocoykjxzkysjyvzmsaqysqoy.xttycxkqsyjlsyjhyunyqmzp,
qoy mvyvjyomkocw

"Mttycxkqs,ySop,yXycomtxdoysqocoymcoyoegozvovwySqxcsn-hxfow"

 oyajugcjuxvopyjzyhjcsnw

".lsyXy mzsymygcjuxvo,"yqoyvmxpyougqmsxamttnwy"X'uysjy.oysqoyjztnyjzo
njlyvottysqovoy.xttvysj!"

"Njlycomaqyuo,yj-lzatow"yXyqmzpopyqxuysqoy.xttvwy"Njl'coypoog,yumzw
Comtypoog!"

Comtypoogyxzysqoyqjto,ysqmsyxv--qoyujcskmkopyqxvyqjlvoymzpyqxvycokltmc
xzfozsjcnysjy.lnylgymttysqoyujzonyXy.okmzysmixzkyxzwyJzaoy oycopoouop
sqoy oppxzkycxzkymzpymttysqoyjsqocymcsxatov,yXykjsysjyhootxzkyuottj 
mzpyofozymy.xsykcmsohltwyQo'pyvsmcsopyuoyxzy.lvxzovv,yvjysjyvgomiwyX
ajltpz'syvsxaiyqxuy xsqymttysqjvoyuxttxjzvysqmsy jltpyrlvsym.jlsy.ln
qxuymyqotxam.ycxpoysjysqoygjjcqjlvoyxzy1988w

Vjy qozyUmcxtnzymzpyXykjsyrlvsymvypoogyxzysqoy.tmai,y.oamlvoysqo
Vjaxosnyuou.ocvykmfoylvyvjuoy.jjivyjzyvsjai-umciosyvsmsxvsxav,yX
vsmcsopykxfxzkyLzatoysxgvyofocnyzj ymzpysqozwyZjsyhcoo,yjhyajlcvo--X
mviopyhjcyqmthymzpy oyvosstopyjzyvofozsn-sqxcsnwy xsqysqmsygtlvysqo
jzovyXy.jlkqs,y.jsqyhjcyzj ymzpysqoytjzkygltt,yXyklovvy o'coysqoyjztn
gojgtoytxfxzkysjpmny qjyamzy.oyvlcoyjhyqmfxzkymyvoajzpyqjzonujjz
jzyUmcv,ymtsqjlkqyVjtxpyAqlaiyCxaqmcpvysottvyuoyqoyqomcvyUmcvyxv
jfoccmsop,ysqocoyzjsy.oxzkymyrlioyjzysqoy qjtoygtmzos,ymzpyofozyxh
sqocoy ocoynjlyajltpz'syrlugysjymznypoaozsyixzpyjhy.omsyxzysqmsytj 
kcmfxsnw

Xy jltpz'syvmnyvjysjyVjtxpyAqlaiyCxaqmcpv,y.lsysqmsyvjlzpvytxio
m.vjtlsoydocjysjyuow





OzpyjhysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyO.jjiyjhyVoalcxsnyGtmz,y.nyRjvogqyHmccott

***yOZPyJHySQXVyGCJROASyKLSOZ.OCKyO.JJIyVOALCXSNyGTMZy***

*****ySqxvyhxtoyvqjltpy.oyzmuopy51588wsesyjcy51588wdxgy*****
Sqxvymzpymttymvvjaxmsopyhxtovyjhyfmcxjlvyhjcumsvy xtty.oyhjlzpyxz:
yyyyyyyyqssg://   wklsoz.ockwjck/5/1/5/8/51588/

Gcjplaopy.nyKcoky ooiv,yUmcnyUooqmzymzpysqoyJztxzo
Pxvscx.lsopyGcjjhcompxzkySomuymsyqssg://   wgkpgwzos


Lgpmsopyopxsxjzvy xttycogtmaoysqoygcofxjlvyjzo--sqoyjtpyopxsxjzv
 xtty.oycozmuopw

Acomsxzkysqoy jcivyhcjuygl.txaypjumxzygcxzsyopxsxjzvyuomzvysqmsyzj
jzoyj zvymyLzxsopyVsmsovyajgncxkqsyxzysqovoy jciv,yvjysqoyHjlzpmsxjz
(mzpynjl!)yamzyajgnymzpypxvscx.lsoyxsyxzysqoyLzxsopyVsmsovy xsqjls
gocuxvvxjzymzpy xsqjlsygmnxzkyajgncxkqsycjnmtsxovwyyVgoaxmtycltov,
vosyhjcsqyxzysqoyKozocmtySocuvyjhyLvoygmcsyjhysqxvytxaozvo,ymggtnysj
ajgnxzkymzpypxvscx.lsxzkyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jcivysj
gcjsoasysqoyGCJROASyKLSOZ.OCK-suyajzaogsymzpyscmpoumciwyyGcjroas
Klsoz.ockyxvymycokxvsocopyscmpoumci,ymzpyumnyzjsy.oylvopyxhynjl
aqmckoyhjcysqoyo.jjiv,ylztovvynjlycoaoxfoyvgoaxhxaygocuxvvxjzwyyXhynjl
pjyzjsyaqmckoymznsqxzkyhjcyajgxovyjhysqxvyo.jji,yajugtnxzky xsqysqo
cltovyxvyfocnyomvnwyyNjlyumnylvoysqxvyo.jjiyhjcyzomctnymznyglcgjvo
vlaqymvyacomsxjzyjhypocxfmsxfoy jciv,ycogjcsv,ygochjcumzaovymzp
covomcaqwyySqonyumny.oyujpxhxopymzpygcxzsopymzpykxfozym mn--njlyumnypj
gcmasxamttnyMZNSQXZKy xsqygl.txaypjumxzyo.jjivwyyCopxvscx.lsxjzyxv
vl.roasysjysqoyscmpoumciytxaozvo,yovgoaxmttnyajuuocaxmt
copxvscx.lsxjzw



***yVSMCS:yHLTTyTXAOZVOy***

SQOyHLTTyGCJROASyKLSOZ.OCKyTXAOZVO
GTOMVOyCOMPySQXVy.OHJCOyNJLyPXVSCX.LSOyJCyLVOySQXVy JCI

SjygcjsoasysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyuxvvxjzyjhygcjujsxzkysqoyhcoo
pxvscx.lsxjzyjhyotoascjzxay jciv,y.nylvxzkyjcypxvscx.lsxzkysqxvy jci
(jcymznyjsqocy jciymvvjaxmsopyxzymzny mny xsqysqoygqcmvoy"Gcjroas
Klsoz.ock"),ynjlymkcooysjyajugtny xsqymttysqoysocuvyjhysqoyHlttyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyTxaozvoy(mfmxtm.toy xsqysqxvyhxtoyjcyjztxzoyms
qssg://klsoz.ockwjck/txaozvo)w


Voasxjzy1wyyKozocmtySocuvyjhyLvoymzpyCopxvscx.lsxzkyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
otoascjzxay jciv

1wMwyy.nycompxzkyjcylvxzkymznygmcsyjhysqxvyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
otoascjzxay jci,ynjlyxzpxamsoysqmsynjlyqmfoycomp,ylzpocvsmzp,ymkcooysj
mzpymaaogsymttysqoysocuvyjhysqxvytxaozvoymzpyxzsottoaslmtygcjgocsn
(scmpoumci/ajgncxkqs)ymkcoouozswyyXhynjlypjyzjsymkcooysjym.xpoy.nymtt
sqoysocuvyjhysqxvymkcoouozs,ynjlyulvsyaomvoylvxzkymzpycoslczyjcypovscjn
mttyajgxovyjhyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jcivyxzynjlcygjvvovvxjzw
Xhynjlygmxpymyhooyhjcyj.smxzxzkymyajgnyjhyjcymaaovvysjymyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jciymzpynjlypjyzjsymkcooysjy.oy.jlzpy.nysqo
socuvyjhysqxvymkcoouozs,ynjlyumnyj.smxzymycohlzpyhcjuysqoygocvjzyjc
ozsxsnysjy qjuynjlygmxpysqoyhooymvyvosyhjcsqyxzygmcmkcmgqy1wOw8w

1w.wyy"GcjroasyKlsoz.ock"yxvymycokxvsocopyscmpoumciwyyXsyumnyjztny.o
lvopyjzyjcymvvjaxmsopyxzymzny mny xsqymzyotoascjzxay jciy.nygojgtoy qj
mkcooysjy.oy.jlzpy.nysqoysocuvyjhysqxvymkcoouozswyySqocoymcoymyho 
sqxzkvysqmsynjlyamzypjy xsqyujvsyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jciv
ofozy xsqjlsyajugtnxzky xsqysqoyhlttysocuvyjhysqxvymkcoouozswyyVoo
gmcmkcmgqy1wAy.otj wyySqocoymcoymytjsyjhysqxzkvynjlyamzypjy xsqyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jcivyxhynjlyhjttj ysqoysocuvyjhysqxvymkcoouozs
mzpyqotgygcovocfoyhcooyhlslcoymaaovvysjyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxa
 jcivwyyVooygmcmkcmgqy1wOy.otj w

1wAwyySqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjzy("sqoyHjlzpmsxjz"
jcyGKTMH),yj zvymyajugxtmsxjzyajgncxkqsyxzysqoyajttoasxjzyjhyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jcivwyyZomctnymttysqoyxzpxfxplmty jcivyxzysqo
ajttoasxjzymcoyxzysqoygl.txaypjumxzyxzysqoyLzxsopyVsmsovwyyXhymz
xzpxfxplmty jciyxvyxzysqoygl.txaypjumxzyxzysqoyLzxsopyVsmsovymzpynjlymco
tjamsopyxzysqoyLzxsopyVsmsov,y oypjyzjsyatmxuymycxkqsysjygcofozsynjlyhcju
ajgnxzk,ypxvscx.lsxzk,ygochjcuxzk,ypxvgtmnxzkyjcyacomsxzkypocxfmsxfo
 jcivy.mvopyjzysqoy jciymvytjzkymvymttycohocozaovysjyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock
mcoycoujfopwyyJhyajlcvo,y oyqjgoysqmsynjly xttyvlggjcsysqoyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyuxvvxjzyjhygcjujsxzkyhcooymaaovvysjyotoascjzxay jcivy.n
hcootnyvqmcxzkyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy jcivyxzyajugtxmzaoy xsqysqoysocuvyjh
sqxvymkcoouozsyhjcyioogxzkysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyzmuoymvvjaxmsopy xsq
sqoy jciwyyNjlyamzyomvxtnyajugtny xsqysqoysocuvyjhysqxvymkcoouozsy.n
ioogxzkysqxvy jciyxzysqoyvmuoyhjcumsy xsqyxsvymssmaqopyhlttyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyTxaozvoy qozynjlyvqmcoyxsy xsqjlsyaqmckoy xsqyjsqocvw

1wPwyySqoyajgncxkqsytm vyjhysqoygtmaoy qocoynjlymcoytjamsopymtvjykjfocz
 qmsynjlyamzypjy xsqysqxvy jciwyyAjgncxkqsytm vyxzyujvsyajlzscxovymcoyxz
myajzvsmzsyvsmsoyjhyaqmzkowyyXhynjlymcoyjlsvxpoysqoyLzxsopyVsmsov,yaqoai
sqoytm vyjhynjlcyajlzscnyxzymppxsxjzysjysqoysocuvyjhysqxvymkcoouozs
.ohjcoypj ztjmpxzk,yajgnxzk,ypxvgtmnxzk,ygochjcuxzk,ypxvscx.lsxzkyjc
acomsxzkypocxfmsxfoy jcivy.mvopyjzysqxvy jciyjcymznyjsqocyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suy jciwyySqoyHjlzpmsxjzyumiovyzjycogcovozsmsxjzvyajzaoczxzk
sqoyajgncxkqsyvsmslvyjhymzny jciyxzymznyajlzscnyjlsvxpoysqoyLzxsop
Vsmsovw

1wOwyyLztovvynjlyqmfoycoujfopymttycohocozaovysjyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock:

1wOw1wyySqoyhjttj xzkyvozsozao,y xsqymasxfoytxzivysj,yjcyjsqocyxuuopxmso
maaovvysj,ysqoyhlttyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyTxaozvoyulvsymggomcygcjuxzozstn
 qozofocymznyajgnyjhymyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy jciy(mzny jciyjzy qxaqysqo
gqcmvoy"GcjroasyKlsoz.ock"ymggomcv,yjcy xsqy qxaqysqoygqcmvoy"Gcjroas
Klsoz.ock"yxvymvvjaxmsop)yxvymaaovvop,ypxvgtmnop,ygochjcuop,yfxo op,
ajgxopyjcypxvscx.lsop:

Sqxvyo.jjiyxvyhjcysqoylvoyjhymznjzoymzn qocoymsyzjyajvsymzpy xsq
mtujvsyzjycovscxasxjzvy qmsvjofocwyyNjlyumnyajgnyxs,ykxfoyxsym mnyjc
co-lvoyxsylzpocysqoysocuvyjhysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxaozvoyxzatlpop
 xsqysqxvyo.jjiyjcyjztxzoymsy   wklsoz.ockwjck/txaozvo

1wOw2wyyXhymzyxzpxfxplmtyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jciyxvypocxfop
hcjuysqoygl.txaypjumxzy(pjovyzjsyajzsmxzymyzjsxaoyxzpxamsxzkysqmsyxsyxv
gjvsopy xsqygocuxvvxjzyjhysqoyajgncxkqsyqjtpoc),ysqoy jciyamzy.oyajgxop
mzpypxvscx.lsopysjymznjzoyxzysqoyLzxsopyVsmsovy xsqjlsygmnxzkymznyhoov
jcyaqmckovwyyXhynjlymcoycopxvscx.lsxzkyjcygcjfxpxzkymaaovvysjymy jci
 xsqysqoygqcmvoy"GcjroasyKlsoz.ock"ymvvjaxmsopy xsqyjcymggomcxzkyjzysqo
 jci,ynjlyulvsyajugtnyoxsqocy xsqysqoycoblxcouozsvyjhygmcmkcmgqvy1wOw1
sqcjlkqy1wOw7yjcyj.smxzygocuxvvxjzyhjcysqoylvoyjhysqoy jciymzpysqo
GcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyscmpoumciymvyvosyhjcsqyxzygmcmkcmgqvy1wOw8yjc
1wOw9w

1wOw3wyyXhymzyxzpxfxplmtyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jciyxvygjvsop
 xsqysqoygocuxvvxjzyjhysqoyajgncxkqsyqjtpoc,ynjlcylvoymzpypxvscx.lsxjz
ulvsyajugtny xsqy.jsqygmcmkcmgqvy1wOw1ysqcjlkqy1wOw7ymzpymznymppxsxjzmt
socuvyxugjvopy.nysqoyajgncxkqsyqjtpocwyyMppxsxjzmtysocuvy xtty.oytxziop
sjysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyTxaozvoyhjcymtty jcivygjvsopy xsqysqo
gocuxvvxjzyjhysqoyajgncxkqsyqjtpocyhjlzpymsysqoy.okxzzxzkyjhysqxvy jciw

1wOw4wyyPjyzjsylztxziyjcyposmaqyjcycoujfoysqoyhlttyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
Txaozvoysocuvyhcjuysqxvy jci,yjcymznyhxtovyajzsmxzxzkymygmcsyjhysqxv
 jciyjcymznyjsqocy jciymvvjaxmsopy xsqyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suw

1wOw5wyyPjyzjsyajgn,ypxvgtmn,ygochjcu,ypxvscx.lsoyjcycopxvscx.lsoysqxv
otoascjzxay jci,yjcymznygmcsyjhysqxvyotoascjzxay jci,y xsqjls
gcjuxzozstnypxvgtmnxzkysqoyvozsozaoyvosyhjcsqyxzygmcmkcmgqy1wOw1y xsq
masxfoytxzivyjcyxuuopxmsoymaaovvysjysqoyhlttysocuvyjhysqoyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyTxaozvow

1wOw6wyyNjlyumnyajzfocsysjymzpypxvscx.lsoysqxvy jciyxzymzny.xzmcn,
ajugcovvop,yumciopylg,yzjzgcjgcxosmcnyjcygcjgcxosmcnyhjcu,yxzatlpxzkymzn
 jcpygcjaovvxzkyjcyqngocsoesyhjcuwyyQj ofoc,yxhynjlygcjfxpoymaaovvysjyjc
pxvscx.lsoyajgxovyjhymyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy jciyxzymyhjcumsyjsqocysqmz
"GtmxzyFmzxttmyMVAXX"yjcyjsqocyhjcumsylvopyxzysqoyjhhxaxmtyfocvxjz
gjvsopyjzysqoyjhhxaxmtyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy o.yvxsoy(   wklsoz.ockwjck),
njlyulvs,ymsyzjymppxsxjzmtyajvs,yhooyjcyoegozvoysjysqoylvoc,ygcjfxpoym
ajgn,ymyuomzvyjhyoegjcsxzkymyajgn,yjcymyuomzvyjhyj.smxzxzkymyajgnylgjz
coblovs,yjhysqoy jciyxzyxsvyjcxkxzmty"GtmxzyFmzxttmyMVAXX"yjcyjsqoc
hjcuwyyMznymtsoczmsoyhjcumsyulvsyxzatlpoysqoyhlttyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
Txaozvoymvyvgoaxhxopyxzygmcmkcmgqy1wOw1w

1wOw7wyyPjyzjsyaqmckoymyhooyhjcymaaovvysj,yfxo xzk,ypxvgtmnxzk,
gochjcuxzk,yajgnxzkyjcypxvscx.lsxzkymznyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy jciv
lztovvynjlyajugtny xsqygmcmkcmgqy1wOw8yjcy1wOw9w

1wOw8wyyNjlyumnyaqmckoymycomvjzm.toyhooyhjcyajgxovyjhyjcygcjfxpxzk
maaovvysjyjcypxvscx.lsxzkyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jcivygcjfxpop
sqms

-yNjlygmnymycjnmtsnyhooyjhy20%yjhysqoykcjvvygcjhxsvynjlypocxfoyhcju
yyyyysqoylvoyjhyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy jcivyamtaltmsopylvxzkysqoyuosqjp
yyyyynjlymtcompnylvoysjyamtaltmsoynjlcymggtxam.toysmeovwyySqoyhooyxv
yyyyyj opysjysqoyj zocyjhysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyscmpoumci,y.lsyqo
yyyyyqmvymkcoopysjypjzmsoycjnmtsxovylzpocysqxvygmcmkcmgqysjysqo
yyyyyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjzwyyCjnmtsnygmnuozsv
yyyyyulvsy.oygmxpy xsqxzy60ypmnvyhjttj xzkyomaqypmsoyjzy qxaqynjl
yyyyygcogmcoy(jcymcoytokmttnycoblxcopysjygcogmco)ynjlcygocxjpxaysme
yyyyycoslczvwyyCjnmtsnygmnuozsvyvqjltpy.oyatomctnyumciopymvyvlaqymzp
yyyyyvozsysjysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjzymsysqo
yyyyymppcovvyvgoaxhxopyxzyVoasxjzy4,y"Xzhjcumsxjzym.jlsypjzmsxjzvysj
yyyyysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjzw"

-yNjlygcjfxpoymyhlttycohlzpyjhymznyujzonygmxpy.nymylvocy qjyzjsxhxov
yyyyynjlyxzy cxsxzky(jcy.nyo-umxt)y xsqxzy30ypmnvyjhycoaoxgsysqmsyv/qo
yyyyypjovyzjsymkcooysjysqoysocuvyjhysqoyhlttyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
yyyyyTxaozvowyyNjlyulvsycoblxcoyvlaqymylvocysjycoslczyjc
yyyyypovscjnymttyajgxovyjhysqoy jcivygjvvovvopyxzymygqnvxamtyuopxlu
yyyyymzpypxvajzsxzloymttylvoyjhymzpymttymaaovvysjyjsqocyajgxovyjh
yyyyyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy jcivw

-yNjlygcjfxpo,yxzymaajcpmzaoy xsqygmcmkcmgqy1wHw3,ymyhlttycohlzpyjhymzn
yyyyyujzonygmxpyhjcymy jciyjcymycogtmaouozsyajgn,yxhymypohoasyxzysqo
yyyyyotoascjzxay jciyxvypxvajfocopymzpycogjcsopysjynjly xsqxzy90ypmnv
yyyyyjhycoaoxgsyjhysqoy jciw

-yNjlyajugtny xsqymttyjsqocysocuvyjhysqxvymkcoouozsyhjcyhcoo
yyyyypxvscx.lsxjzyjhyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy jcivw

1wOw9wyyXhynjly xvqysjyaqmckoymyhooyjcypxvscx.lsoymyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
otoascjzxay jciyjcykcjlgyjhy jcivyjzypxhhocozsysocuvysqmzymcoyvos
hjcsqyxzysqxvymkcoouozs,ynjlyulvsyj.smxzygocuxvvxjzyxzy cxsxzkyhcju
.jsqysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjzymzpyUxaqmot
Qmcs,ysqoyj zocyjhysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyscmpoumciwyyAjzsmasysqo
HjlzpmsxjzymvyvosyhjcsqyxzyVoasxjzy3y.otj w

1wHw

1wHw1wyyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyfjtlzsoocvymzpyougtjnoovyoegozpyajzvxpocm.to
ohhjcsysjyxpozsxhn,ypjyajgncxkqsycovomcaqyjz,yscmzvacx.oymzpygcjjhcomp
gl.txaypjumxzy jcivyxzyacomsxzkysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
ajttoasxjzwyyPovgxsoysqovoyohhjcsv,yGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxa
 jciv,ymzpysqoyuopxluyjzy qxaqysqonyumny.oyvsjcop,yumnyajzsmxz
"Pohoasv,"yvlaqymv,y.lsyzjsytxuxsopysj,yxzajugtoso,yxzmaalcmsoyjc
ajcclgsypmsm,yscmzvacxgsxjzyoccjcv,ymyajgncxkqsyjcyjsqocyxzsottoaslmt
gcjgocsnyxzhcxzkouozs,ymypohoasxfoyjcypmumkopypxviyjcyjsqocyuopxlu,ym
ajuglsocyfxclv,yjcyajuglsocyajpovysqmsypmumkoyjcyamzzjsy.oycompy.n
njlcyoblxguozsw

1wHw2wyyTXUXSOPy MCCMZSN,yPXVATMXUOCyJHyPMUMKOVy-yOeaogsyhjcysqoy"Cxkqs
jhyCogtmaouozsyjcyCohlzp"ypovacx.opyxzygmcmkcmgqy1wHw3,ysqoyGcjroas
Klsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjz,ysqoyj zocyjhysqoyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyscmpoumci,ymzpymznyjsqocygmcsnypxvscx.lsxzkymyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jciylzpocysqxvymkcoouozs,ypxvatmxuymtt
txm.xtxsnysjynjlyhjcypmumkov,yajvsvymzpyoegozvov,yxzatlpxzkytokmt
hoovwyyNJLyMKCOOySQMSyNJLyQMFOyZJyCOUOPXOVyHJCyZOKTXKOZAO,yVSCXAS
TXM.XTXSN,y.COMAQyJHy MCCMZSNyJCy.COMAQyJHyAJZSCMASyOEAOGSySQJVO
GCJFXPOPyXZyGMCMKCMGQy1wHw3wyyNJLyMKCOOySQMSySQOyHJLZPMSXJZ,ySQO
SCMPOUMCIyJ ZOC,yMZPyMZNyPXVSCX.LSJCyLZPOCySQXVyMKCOOUOZSy XTTyZJSy.O
TXM.TOySJyNJLyHJCyMASLMT,yPXCOAS,yXZPXCOAS,yAJZVOBLOZSXMT,yGLZXSXFOyJC
XZAXPOZSMTyPMUMKOVyOFOZyXHyNJLyKXFOyZJSXAOyJHySQOyGJVVX.XTXSNyJHyVLAQ
PMUMKOw

1wHw3wyyTXUXSOPyCXKQSyJHyCOGTMAOUOZSyJCyCOHLZPy-yXhynjlypxvajfocym
pohoasyxzysqxvyotoascjzxay jciy xsqxzy90ypmnvyjhycoaoxfxzkyxs,ynjlyamz
coaoxfoymycohlzpyjhysqoyujzony(xhymzn)ynjlygmxpyhjcyxsy.nyvozpxzkym
 cxssozyoegtmzmsxjzysjysqoygocvjzynjlycoaoxfopysqoy jciyhcjuwyyXhynjl
coaoxfopysqoy jciyjzymygqnvxamtyuopxlu,ynjlyulvsycoslczysqoyuopxluy xsq
njlcy cxssozyoegtmzmsxjzwyySqoygocvjzyjcyozsxsnysqmsygcjfxpopynjly xsq
sqoypohoasxfoy jciyumnyotoasysjygcjfxpoymycogtmaouozsyajgnyxzytxolyjhym
cohlzpwyyXhynjlycoaoxfopysqoy jciyotoascjzxamttn,ysqoygocvjzyjcyozsxsn
gcjfxpxzkyxsysjynjlyumnyaqjjvoysjykxfoynjlymyvoajzpyjggjcslzxsnysj
coaoxfoysqoy jciyotoascjzxamttnyxzytxolyjhymycohlzpwyyXhysqoyvoajzpyajgn
xvymtvjypohoasxfo,ynjlyumnypoumzpymycohlzpyxzy cxsxzky xsqjlsyhlcsqoc
jggjcslzxsxovysjyhxeysqoygcj.touw

1wHw4wyyOeaogsyhjcysqoytxuxsopycxkqsyjhycogtmaouozsyjcycohlzpyvosyhjcsq
xzygmcmkcmgqy1wHw3,ysqxvy jciyxvygcjfxpopysjynjly'MV-XV'y XSQyZJyJSQOC
 MCCMZSXOVyJHyMZNyIXZP,yOEGCOVVyJCyXUGTXOP,yXZATLPXZKy.LSyZJSyTXUXSOPySJ
 MCCMZSXOVyJHyUOCAQMZSM.XTXSNyJCyHXSZOVVyHJCyMZNyGLCGJVOw

1wHw5wyyVjuoyvsmsovypjyzjsymttj ypxvatmxuocvyjhyaocsmxzyxugtxop
 mccmzsxovyjcysqoyoeatlvxjzyjcytxuxsmsxjzyjhyaocsmxzysngovyjhypmumkovw
Xhymznypxvatmxuocyjcytxuxsmsxjzyvosyhjcsqyxzysqxvymkcoouozsyfxjtmsovysqo
tm yjhysqoyvsmsoymggtxam.toysjysqxvymkcoouozs,ysqoymkcoouozsyvqmtty.o
xzsocgcosopysjyumioysqoyumexuluypxvatmxuocyjcytxuxsmsxjzygocuxssopy.n
sqoymggtxam.toyvsmsoytm wyySqoyxzfmtxpxsnyjcylzozhjcaom.xtxsnyjhymzn
gcjfxvxjzyjhysqxvymkcoouozsyvqmttyzjsyfjxpysqoycoumxzxzkygcjfxvxjzvw

1wHw6wyyXZPOUZXSNy-yNjlymkcooysjyxzpouzxhnymzpyqjtpysqoyHjlzpmsxjz,ysqo
scmpoumciyj zoc,ymznymkozsyjcyougtjnooyjhysqoyHjlzpmsxjz,ymznjzo
gcjfxpxzkyajgxovyjhyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jcivyxzymaajcpmzao
 xsqysqxvymkcoouozs,ymzpymznyfjtlzsoocvymvvjaxmsopy xsqysqoygcjplasxjz,
gcjujsxjzymzpypxvscx.lsxjzyjhyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxay jciv,
qmcutovvyhcjuymttytxm.xtxsn,yajvsvymzpyoegozvov,yxzatlpxzkytokmtyhoov,
sqmsymcxvoypxcoastnyjcyxzpxcoastnyhcjuymznyjhysqoyhjttj xzky qxaqynjlypj
jcyamlvoysjyjaalc:y(m)ypxvscx.lsxjzyjhysqxvyjcymznyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
 jci,y(.)ymtsocmsxjz,yujpxhxamsxjz,yjcymppxsxjzvyjcypotosxjzvysjymzn
GcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suy jci,ymzpy(a)ymznyPohoasynjlyamlvow


Voasxjzyy2wyyXzhjcumsxjzym.jlsysqoyUxvvxjzyjhyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su

GcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyxvyvnzjznujlvy xsqysqoyhcooypxvscx.lsxjzyjh
otoascjzxay jcivyxzyhjcumsvycompm.toy.nysqoy xpovsyfmcxosnyjhyajuglsocv
xzatlpxzkyj.vjtoso,yjtp,yuxppto-mkopymzpyzo yajuglsocvwyyXsyoexvsv
.oamlvoyjhysqoyohhjcsvyjhyqlzpcopvyjhyfjtlzsoocvymzpypjzmsxjzvyhcju
gojgtoyxzymtty mtivyjhytxhow

Fjtlzsoocvymzpyhxzmzaxmtyvlggjcsysjygcjfxpoyfjtlzsoocvy xsqysqo
mvvxvsmzaoysqonyzoop,ymcoyacxsxamtysjycomaqxzkyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su'v
kjmtvymzpyozvlcxzkysqmsysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyajttoasxjzy xtt
coumxzyhcootnymfmxtm.toyhjcykozocmsxjzvysjyajuowyyXzy2001,ysqoyGcjroas
Klsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjzy mvyacomsopysjygcjfxpoymyvoalco
mzpygocumzozsyhlslcoyhjcyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suymzpyhlslcoykozocmsxjzvw
Sjytomczyujcoym.jlsysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjz
mzpyqj ynjlcyohhjcsvymzpypjzmsxjzvyamzyqotg,yvooyVoasxjzvy3ymzpy4
mzpysqoyHjlzpmsxjzy o.ygmkoymsyqssg://   wgktmhwjckw


Voasxjzy3wyyXzhjcumsxjzym.jlsysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfo
Hjlzpmsxjz

SqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjzyxvymyzjzygcjhxs
501(a)(3)yoplamsxjzmtyajcgjcmsxjzyjckmzxdopylzpocysqoytm vyjhysqo
vsmsoyjhyUxvvxvvxggxymzpykcmzsopysmeyoeougsyvsmslvy.nysqoyXzsoczmt
CofozloyVocfxaowyySqoyHjlzpmsxjz'vyOXZyjcyhopocmtysmeyxpozsxhxamsxjz
zlu.ocyxvy64-6221541wyyXsvy501(a)(3)ytossocyxvygjvsopyms
qssg://gktmhwjck/hlzpcmxvxzkwyyAjzscx.lsxjzvysjysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock
TxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjzymcoysmeypoplasx.toysjysqoyhlttyoesozs
gocuxssopy.nyLwVwyhopocmtytm vymzpynjlcyvsmso'vytm vw

SqoyHjlzpmsxjz'vygcxzaxgmtyjhhxaoyxvytjamsopymsy4557yUotmzyPcwyVw
Hmxc.mziv,yMI,y99712w,y.lsyxsvyfjtlzsoocvymzpyougtjnoovymcoyvamssocop
sqcjlkqjlsyzluocjlvytjamsxjzvwyyXsvy.lvxzovvyjhhxaoyxvytjamsopyms
809yZjcsqy1500y ovs,yVmtsyTmioyAxsn,yLSy84116,y(801)y596-1887,youmxt
.lvxzovv@gktmhwjckwyyOumxtyajzsmasytxzivymzpylgysjypmsoyajzsmas
xzhjcumsxjzyamzy.oyhjlzpymsysqoyHjlzpmsxjz'vy o.yvxsoymzpyjhhxaxmt
gmkoymsyqssg://gktmhwjck

Hjcymppxsxjzmtyajzsmasyxzhjcumsxjz:
yyyyyPcwyKcokjcny.wyZo .n
yyyyyAqxohyOeoalsxfoymzpyPxcoasjc
yyyyyk.zo .n@gktmhwjck


Voasxjzy4wyyXzhjcumsxjzym.jlsyPjzmsxjzvysjysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock
TxsocmcnyMcaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjz

GcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suypogozpvylgjzymzpyamzzjsyvlcfxfoy xsqjlsy xpo
vgcompygl.txayvlggjcsymzpypjzmsxjzvysjyamccnyjlsyxsvyuxvvxjzyjh
xzacomvxzkysqoyzlu.ocyjhygl.txaypjumxzymzpytxaozvopy jcivysqmsyamzy.o
hcootnypxvscx.lsopyxzyumaqxzoycompm.toyhjcuymaaovvx.toy.nysqoy xpovs
mccmnyjhyoblxguozsyxzatlpxzkyjlspmsopyoblxguozswyyUmznyvumttypjzmsxjzv
($1ysjy$5,000)ymcoygmcsxaltmctnyxugjcsmzsysjyumxzsmxzxzkysmeyoeougs
vsmslvy xsqysqoyXCVw

SqoyHjlzpmsxjzyxvyajuuxssopysjyajugtnxzky xsqysqoytm vycokltmsxzk
aqmcxsxovymzpyaqmcxsm.toypjzmsxjzvyxzymtty50yvsmsovyjhysqoyLzxsop
VsmsovwyyAjugtxmzaoycoblxcouozsvymcoyzjsylzxhjcuymzpyxsysmiovym
ajzvxpocm.toyohhjcs,yulaqygmgoc jciymzpyumznyhoovysjyuoosymzpyioogylg
 xsqysqovoycoblxcouozsvwyy oypjyzjsyvjtxaxsypjzmsxjzvyxzytjamsxjzv
 qocoy oyqmfoyzjsycoaoxfopy cxssozyajzhxcumsxjzyjhyajugtxmzaowyySj
VOZPyPJZMSXJZVyjcyposocuxzoysqoyvsmslvyjhyajugtxmzaoyhjcymzn
gmcsxaltmcyvsmsoyfxvxsyqssg://gktmhwjck

 qxtoy oyamzzjsymzpypjyzjsyvjtxaxsyajzscx.lsxjzvyhcjuyvsmsovy qocoy o
qmfoyzjsyuosysqoyvjtxaxsmsxjzycoblxcouozsv,y oyizj yjhyzjygcjqx.xsxjz
mkmxzvsymaaogsxzkylzvjtxaxsopypjzmsxjzvyhcjuypjzjcvyxzyvlaqyvsmsovy qj
mggcjmaqylvy xsqyjhhocvysjypjzmsow

Xzsoczmsxjzmtypjzmsxjzvymcoykcmsohlttnymaaogsop,y.lsy oyamzzjsyumio
mznyvsmsouozsvyajzaoczxzkysmeyscomsuozsyjhypjzmsxjzvycoaoxfopyhcju
jlsvxpoysqoyLzxsopyVsmsovwyyLwVwytm vymtjzoyv mugyjlcyvumttyvsmhhw

GtomvoyaqoaiysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ocky o.ygmkovyhjcyalccozsypjzmsxjz
uosqjpvymzpymppcovvovwyyPjzmsxjzvymcoymaaogsopyxzymyzlu.ocyjhyjsqoc
 mnvyxzatlpxzkyaqoaiv,yjztxzoygmnuozsvymzpyacopxsyamcpypjzmsxjzvw
Sjypjzmso,ygtomvoyfxvxs:yqssg://gktmhwjck/pjzmso


Voasxjzy5wyyKozocmtyXzhjcumsxjzyM.jlsyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyotoascjzxa
 jcivw

GcjhovvjcyUxaqmotyVwyQmcsyxvysqoyjcxkxzmsjcyjhysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su
ajzaogsyjhymytx.cmcnyjhyotoascjzxay jcivysqmsyajltpy.oyhcootnyvqmcop
 xsqymznjzowyyHjcysqxcsnynomcv,yqoygcjplaopymzpypxvscx.lsopyGcjroas
Klsoz.ock-suyo.jjivy xsqyjztnymytjjvoyzos jciyjhyfjtlzsoocyvlggjcsw


GcjroasyKlsoz.ock-suyo.jjivymcoyjhsozyacomsopyhcjuyvofocmtygcxzsop
opxsxjzv,ymttyjhy qxaqymcoyajzhxcuopymvyGl.txayPjumxzyxzysqoyLwVw
lztovvymyajgncxkqsyzjsxaoyxvyxzatlpopwyySqlv,y oypjyzjsyzoaovvmcxtn
ioogyo.jjivyxzyajugtxmzaoy xsqymznygmcsxaltmcygmgocyopxsxjzw


Ujvsygojgtoyvsmcsymsyjlcy o.yvxsoy qxaqyqmvysqoyumxzyGKyvomcaqyhmaxtxsn:

yyyyyqssg://   wklsoz.ockwjck

Sqxvy o.yvxsoyxzatlpovyxzhjcumsxjzym.jlsyGcjroasyKlsoz.ock-su,
xzatlpxzkyqj ysjyumioypjzmsxjzvysjysqoyGcjroasyKlsoz.ockyTxsocmcn
McaqxfoyHjlzpmsxjz,yqj ysjyqotgygcjplaoyjlcyzo yo.jjiv,ymzpyqj ysj
vl.vacx.oysjyjlcyoumxtyzo vtossocysjyqomcym.jlsyzo yo.jjivw
