Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt 'ibYptcpobpoqbyrwb lsqwobSulo,bgnbWq ptbTujwbG.ttl. ri

YruibwGllfbuibkltbyrwb.iwblkbponlowbponerwtwbuobyrwb.ouywqbIypywibpoqbdliy
lyrwtbmptyiblkbyrwbeltsqbpybolbjliybpoqbeuyrbpsdliybolbtwiytujyuloi
erpyilwxwtabbNl.bdpnbjlmnbuy,b uxwbuybpepnbltbtw-.iwbuyb.oqwtbyrwbywtdiblk
yrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSujwoiwbuojs.qwqbeuyrbyruibwGllfbltblosuowbpy
eeea .ywogwt alt abbUkbnl.bptwbolybsljpywqbuobyrwb.ouywqbIypywi,bnl.'ssbrpxw
ylbjrwjfbyrwbspeiblkbyrwbjl.oytnberwtwbnl.bptwbsljpywqbgwkltwb.iuo byruibwgllfa

Yuysw:bYptcpobpoqbyrwb lsqwobSulo

P.yrlt:bWq ptbTujwbG.ttl. ri

TwswpiwbQpyw:bKwgt.ptnb11,b2019b[WGllfb#58874]

Spo .p w:bWo suir

Jrptpjywtbiwybwojlquo :b.YK-8

***bIYPTYbLKbYRUIbMTLVWJYb .YWOGWT bWGLLFbYPTCPObPOQbYRWb LSQWObSULOb***




Mtlq.jwqbgnbPsbRpuowi,bJuoqnbGwnwtb&byrwblosuowbQuiytug.ywq
MtllktwpqwtibJpopqpbywpdbpybryym://eeeam qmjpopqpaowy











bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb[JlxwtbUss.iytpyulo]




[Uss.iytpyulo:bIypoquo bpglxwbrudbepibVpq-gps-vp,byrwb lsqwobSulo]




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYPTCPObPOQbYRW
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb LSQWObSULO

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbGN

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbWQ PTbTUJWbG.TTL. RI

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbP.YRLTbLK

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbYPTCPObGLLFI,
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbDPTIbGLLFI,
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbD.JFWT,bWYJa

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbUSS.IYTPYWQbGN
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbVabPSSWObIYabVLRO

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb[Uss.iytpyulo]

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb TLIIWYb&bQ.OSPM
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbM.GSUIRWTIbbbbbOWEbNLTF




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJlmntu ry
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbWq ptbTujwbG.ttl. ri
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb1923
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbM.gsuirwqbDptjr,b1923
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb_Jlmntu rywqbuob twpybGtuypuo_


bbbbbbbbbbbbbbb_Mtuoywqbuobyrwb.ouywqbIypywiblkbPdwtujp_




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJLOYWOYI

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbUbYrwb lsqwobSulo
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbUUbYrwbYtpuouo blkbVpq-gps-vp
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbUUUbPbDwwyuo blkbDniywtn
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbUXbErpybyrwbKllymtuoyibYlsq
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbXbYrwbKpypsbQtlmi
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbXUbQwpyrbIywpsibGwruoq
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbXUUb“Nl.bD.iybIpjtukujwbRud”
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbXUUUbDniywtnblkbyrwbMpiy
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbUHbYrwbIrpkyblkbQwpyr
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHbDpqbYtwpjrwtn
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHUbIytpo wbUojwoiwbG.toi
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHUUbYrwb lsqwobUo lyi
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHUUUbPbIytpo w,bKspybYlewt
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHUXbYrwbJrpdgwtblkbRlttlti
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHXbYrwbDpmblkbGsllq
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHXUbYrwbQupdloqbRlptq
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHXUUbYrwbYlty.twblkbKutw
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHXUUUbYrwbImlltblkbTwxwo w
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHUHbPbGptgwqbIrpkybFussi
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHHbYrwbQwpqbTwy.to
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHHUbPobWijpmwbpoqbpbJpmy.tw




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbUSS.IYTPYULOI

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbIypoquo bpglxwbrudbepibVpq-gps-vp,byrwb lsqwo
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbSulo

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbRwbjp. rybyrwbsuyyswbsulobgnbyrwbijt.kkblk
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbuyibowjf

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbGwkltwbrudbepibyrwbglqnblkbpb upoybpoyrtlmluq

bbbbbbbbbbbbbb“.mlobyrwbyrutqbqpnbYptcpobirpssbquwbgwowpyr
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbdnbfoukw”

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbYptcpobipebpberuywbdpo,bgpsqbpoqblsqbpoq
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbirtuxwswqbeuyrbpbslo beruywbgwptq

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbYrwb lsqwobSulobeuyrbyelbdu rynbgl.oqibepi
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb.mlobyrwbRu rbMtuwiy

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbR.oyuo byl wyrwt,byrwbdpobpoqbyrwb twpybsulo
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbytlqbyrwbmpyribyleptqbrldw

bbbbbbbbbbbbbbEuyrbpbjtnblkbywttltbyrwbImpouptqbquxwqbuoyl
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbyrwbtuxwt




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYptcpobpoqbyrwb lsqwobSulo




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWb LSQWObSULO


IPGLT,byrwbsulowii,bi.jfswqbrwtbnl.o —pbiuo swbk.ccnbgpss,bimlyywqbsufw
Irwwyp,byrwbswlmptqabIrwbspnbuobyrwbeptdbi.oiruowbgwkltwbyrwbtljfn
jpxwtobyrpybepibrwtbsput,biytwyjrwqbl.yb.mlobrwtbiuqwbeuyrbrpskbjsliwq
wnwi,bnwybIpgltbepibpswtyabYrwtwbrpqbgwwobyrtwwblkbyrwiwbsuyysw,bk.ccn
gpssibpybkutiy—yelbqp. rywtibpoqbpbilo—poqbIpgltbpoqbO.dp,byrwutbiutw,
rpqbgwwobmtl.qblkbyrwd;bmtl.qbpoqbrpmmnabG.ybfussibrpqbolybgwwo
mswoyuk.s,bpoqbIpglt,b.oqwtol.tuirwq,brpqbgwwob.opgswbylbmtlq.jw
i.kkujuwoybdusfbylbol.tuirbmtlmwtsnbyrtwwbs.iynbj.gi,bpoqbyrwobpbjlsq
tpuobrpqbjldw,bpoqbyrwbsuyyswblowibrpqbiujfwowqabLosnbyrwbiytlo wiy
i.txuxwq—yrwbyelbqp. rywtibrpqbquwqabIpgltbrpqbdl.towq,bmpjuo bylbpoq
ktlbgwiuqwbyrwbmuyuk.sbguyiblkbgwqtp  swqbk.t,beruouo bpoqbdlpouo abOle
poqbp puobirwbel.sqboliwbyrwdbeuyrbrwtbd.ccswbpibyrl. rbirwbel.sqbpepfwo
yrwdbktldbyrwbslo biswwmbyrpybfoleibolbepfuo abPybspiy,brlewxwt,birw
pgpoqlowqbrwtbwkkltyi,bpoqbolebrwtberlswbipxp wbrwptybepibkusswqbeuyr
jlojwtobkltbyrwbsuyyswbdpswbj.gbyrpybtwdpuowqbylbrwtabYrpybepibernbIpglt
epibdltwbpswtybyrpob.i.psa

O.dp,byrwbsulo,bepibpepnabYelbou ryibgwkltwbrwbrpqbdpqwbpbfussbpoq
qtp  wqbuybylbyrwutbsputbpoqbspiybou rybrwbrpqbkptwqbkltyrbp puo,bg.ybrw
rpqbolybtwy.towqabIpgltbepibyruofuo ,bpibirwbrpskbqlcwq,blkbEpmmu,byrw
ms.dmbpoywslmw,byrpybrwtbimswoquqbdpywbdu rybyruibxwtnbduo.ywbgw
qtp  uo byrtl. rbyrwbypo swqbv.o swbylbrwtabLtbmwtrpmibuybel.sqbgw
Mpjjl,byrwbcwgtp,berliwbkswirbepibyrwbgwiybgwslxwqblkbrwtbfuoq—v.ujn,
i.jj.swoybMpjjlabIpglt’ibdl.yrbepywtwqa

Pr,berpybepibyrpy?bYrwbirpqleblkbpbil.oqbrpqbjldwbylbyrliwbfwwobwptia
Irwbtpuiwqbrwtbrwpq,bjljfuo buybkutiyb.mloblowbiuqwbpoqbyrwobyrwblyrwt,
pibeuyrb.m-mtujfwqbwptibirwbil. rybylbjpyjrbyrwbkpuoywiybtwmwyuyuloblk
yrpyberujrbrpqbquiy.tgwqbrwtabRwtboliwbioukkwqbyrwbputabYrwtwbepibg.y
yrwbi.  wiyuloblkbpbgtwwcw,bg.yberpybyrwtwbepibdlxwqbyleptqbrwtbktldbyrw
qutwjyuloblkbyrwbil.oqbirwbrpqbrwptq,bpoqberujrbirwbiyussbrwptqbuobp
isu rysnbuojtwpiuo bxls.dwbyrpybylsqbrwtbyrpyberpywxwtbepibdpfuo buybepi
pmmtlpjruo brwtabPibuybqtwebjsliwtbyrwbgwpiy’ibowtxl.iowiibuojtwpiwqbpoq
irwbtlsswqblxwtblobrwtbgwssn,bir.yyuo blkkbyrwbdusfbi.mmsnbktldbyrwbj.g,
erujrbxwoywqbuyibquipmmtlxpsbuobduoupy.twb tlesib.oyusbpbsle,bz.wt.sl.i
eruowbktldbyrwbsulowiibiuswojwqbrud,byrwobrwbiyllqbpybrwtbiuqw,bsllfuo 
kutiybpybrwtbpoqbyrwobuobyrwbqutwjyulobyleptqberujrbirwbsllfwq,bjljfuo 
ruibsuyyswbrwpqbkutiybloblowbiuqwbpoqbyrwoblobyrwblyrwta

Wxuqwoysnbyrwtwbepibpbquiy.tguo bz.psuynbuobyrwbil.oqbyrpybIpglt
rwptq—ildwyruo byrpybuoimutwqbpbjwtypuobtwiyswiiowii,bukbolybpjy.ps
pmmtwrwoiulo—yrl. rbirwbjl.sqbolybgwbi.twbpibnwybyrpybuybglqwqbussabUy
du rybgwbrwtb twpybsltqbtwy.touo ,bg.ybuybquqbolybil.oqbsufwbyrw
dlxwdwoyblkbpbsulo,bjwtypuosnbolybsufwbpbsulobqtp  uo bpbrwpxnbfussabIrw
 spojwqbpybrwtbj.g,bgtwpyruo bpibirwbquqbilbpbmspuoyuxwberuowabYrwtwbepi
psepnibyrwbkwptbyrpybildwbqpo wtbdwopjwqbrud—yruibspiyblkbrwtbsuyysw
kpdusn—g.ybirw,bIpgltbyrwbsulowii,bepibyrwtwbylbqwkwoqbruda

Mtwiwoysnbyrwbgtwwcwbgtl. rybylbrwtboliytusibyrwbijwoybimlltblkbyrw
yruo byrpybdlxwqbyleptqbrwtbyrtl. rbyrwbv.o swabUoiypoysnbyrwbytl.gswq
dlyrwt-kpjwbepibdwypdltmrliwqbuoylbpbgptw-kpo wq,b suyywtuo -wnwqbdpif
lkbipxp wbtp w,bkltbyrwbijwoybyrpybrpqbjldwb.mbylbrwtbyrtl. rbyrwbv.o sw
epibyrwbrpywqbdpo-ijwoyabIrwbtliwbylbrwtbkwwy,brwtbrwpqbkspyywowq,brwt
iuo.l.ibypusbyeuyjruo bowtxl.isnabYrtl. rbyrpybiytpo wbdwqu.dbgnberujr
poudpsibjldd.oujpywbeuyrblowbpolyrwtbirwbjp.yulowqbrwtbj.gbylbsuwbqleo
poqbtwdpuoberwtwbrwbepib.oyusbirwbtwy.towq,byrwobirwbdlxwqbtpmuqsnbpoq
iuswoysnbylbdwwybyrwbuoyt.qwta

Yrwbj.gbrpqbrwptqberpybuyibdlyrwtbrwptqbpoqbolebrwbjp. rybyrwbidwssblk
dpo—pob.okpdusuptbidwssbyrpybrpqbowxwtbudmuo wqb.mlobruiboliytusi
gwkltw,bnwybpbidwssbyrpybrwbfowebpyblojwbkltbyrpyblkbpobwowdn—pbidwss
yrpybgtl. rybpbtwpjyulobpibynmujpsbpibyrpyberujrbdptfwqbyrwbpyyuy.qwblk
yrwb tleobsulowii,bgtuo uo byrwbrputibpslo bruibsuyyswbimuowbwtwjybpoq
gptuo bruibyuonbkpo iabPibyrwbpq.sybdlxwqbz.ujfsnbpoqbiywpsyrusnbuoyl
yrwb.oqwtgt.irbyrwbidpssbj.g,bu oltuo brwtbuov.ojyulo,bklsslewqbpkywt
rwt,bruibruoqbz.ptywtibelggsuo bktldbiuqwbylbiuqw,bpkywtbyrwbdpoowtblk
yrwbxwtnbnl.o blkbruibfuoq,byrwbtuquj.sl.ib puybjldmltyuo bussbeuyrbyrw
qu oukuwqbgwptuo blkbruibkltwbz.ptywti;bg.ybyrwbsulowii,buoywoyb.mlo
yrpyberujrbspnbgwkltwbrwt,bquqbolybfolebyrpybrwbklsslewqbrwta

Yrwtwbepibqwoiwbv.o swbgwkltwbyrwbyelbkltbpbr.oqtwqbnptqi,bg.ybyrtl. r
uybyrwbsuloibrpqbeltobpby.oows-sufwbmpyrbylbyrwutbsput;bpoqbyrwobyrwtw
epibpbidpssbjswptuo byrtl. rberujrbtpobpbewss-eltobv.o swbytpus,bl.yblk
yrwbv.o swbpyblowbwoqblkbyrwbjswptuo bpoqbuoylbyrwbv.o swbp puobpybyrw
lyrwtabPibIpgltbtwpjrwqbyrwbjswptuo birwbipebyrwblgvwjyblkbrwtbkwptbpoq
rpytwqbewssbeuyruobuyabErpybukbyrwbdpo-yruo bewtwbolybr.oyuo brwtblt
rwti?bErpybukbrwbwxwobqtwpdwqbolyblkbyrwutbmtwiwojw?bYrwiwbkpjyibewtwbpi
olyruo bylbIpglt,byrwbsulowii,bylqpnabLtquoptusnbirwbel.sqbrpxwbswybrud
mpiib.odlswiywq,bilbslo bpibrwbquqbolybjldwbjsliwbwol. rbylbyrtwpywobyrw
ipkwynblkbrwtbj.g;blt,bj.gswii,birwbel.sqbrpxwbis.ofbpepnbpybyrwbkutiy
uoyudpyuloblkbruibpmmtlpjrabG.ybylqpnbyrwbsulowiibepibowtxl.ibpoq
kwptk.s—kwptk.sbgwjp.iwblkbyrwbiuo swbj.gbyrpybtwdpuowqbylbrwt—rwt
dpywtopsbuoiyuojyibjwoywtwqbyrtwwklsq,bmwtrpmi,b.mlobyruibslowbpoq
ytumsnbslxwqbi.txuxlt—poqbilbirwbquqbolybepuybkltbyrwbdpobylbyrtwpywo
yrwbipkwynblkbrwtbsuyyswblow;bg.ybuoiywpqbirwbdlxwqbylbdwwybrudbpoqbyl
iylmbrudabKtldbyrwbilkybdlyrwtbirwbrpqbgwjldwbpbywttuknuo bjtwpy.twblk
qwiyt.jyulo,brwtbgtpuoblgiwiiwqbgnbpbiuo swbyrl. ry—ylbfussa

Irwbquqbolybrwiuypywbpobuoiypoybpybyrwbwq wblkbyrwbjswptuo ,boltbquqbirw
 uxwbyrwbisu rywiybeptouo abYrwbkutiybuoyudpyulobyrpybyrwbgspjfbepttult
rpqbyrpybyrwtwbepibpbsulobeuyruobyewoynbduswiblkbrud,bepibyrwbywttuknuo 
pmmptuyuloblkbyruibqwxus-kpjwqbjpybjrpt uo bpjtliibyrwbjswptuo byleptq
rudbeuyrbyrwbimwwqblkbpobpttleabYrwbgspjfbepibolybiwptjruo bkltbsuloia
Rpqbrwbfoleobyrpybyrwtwbepiblowbowptbrwbel.sqbrpxwb uxwobuybpbeuqw
gwtyrabRwbel.sqbrpxwbkswqbolebrpqbyrwtwbgwwobponerwtwbylbkswwabYrw
owptwiybytwwbepibkptyrwtbktldbrudbyrpobepibyrwbsulowiiabIrwbjl.sq
lxwtrp.sbrudbgwkltwbrwbel.sqbrpxwbjlxwtwqbpbz.ptywtblkbyrwbquiypojwa
Yrwtwbepibolbrlmwbpoqbyrwtwbepiblosnblowbyruo bylbqlabYrwbgwpiybepi
psdliyb.mlobrudbpoqbgwruoqbrwtbrwbipebpbyuonbj.gabYrwbdpobgltwbpbrwpxn
imwptabRwbjpttuwqbuybkptbgpjfbeuyrbruibtu rybrpoqbpoqbr.tswqbuybpybyrw
xwtnbuoiypoybyrpybIpgltbtliwbylbiwucwbrudabYrwbimwptbmpiiwqbyrtl. rbyrw
ipxp wbrwptybpoqbpsdliybiud.sypowl.isnbyrwb upoybvpeibjsliwqb.mlobyrw
kpjwbpoqbif.ssblkbyrwbepttultabYrwbdldwoy.dblkbyrwbsulowiibjpttuwqbyrw
yelbrwpxusnbylbyrwb tl.oq,bqwpqbwhjwmybkltbpbkwebimpidlqujbyeuyjruo iblk
yrwutbd.ijswia

Yrwbltmrpowqbj.gbiylmmwqbyewoynbkwwybpepnbpoqbi.txwnwqbyrwbkutiyb twpy
jpypiytlmrwblkbruibsukwbeuyrbz.wiyulouo bwnwiabRwbepoywqbylbpmmtlpjrbrui
qpdbg.ybpbopy.tpsbkwptblkbyrwbdpo-ijwoybrwsqbrudbpepnabMtwiwoysnbrw
jlddwojwqbylberuowbuobpbylowbyrpybpsepnibgtl. rybruibdlyrwtbylbrud
r.ttuwqsn;bg.ybyruibyudwbirwbquqbolybjldw—irwbquqbolybwxwobtuiwbpoq
sllfbyleptqbrudabRwbepibm.ccswq—rwbjl.sqbolyb.oqwtiypoqbuyabRw
jloyuo.wqbylbjtn,bkwwsuo bpssbyrwberuswbdltwbipqbpoqbdltwbslowsna
 tpq.pssnbrwbjtwmybjsliwtbylbruibdlyrwtabRwbipebyrpybyrwbiytpo w
jtwpy.twbirwbrpqbfusswqbquqbolybdlxwbpoqbpkywtbpberuswbrwbkwsybswii
ywttltblkbuy,bilbyrpybpybspiybrwbkl.oqbyrwbjl.tp wbylbjldwbz.uywbjsliw
ylbruibdlyrwtbpoqbioukkbpybrwtabRwbiyussberuowqbylbrwt,bg.ybirwbquqboly
poiewtabUybqpeowqblobrudbpybspiybyrpybyrwtwbepibildwyruo betlo —yrpy
ruib twpy,bgwp.yuk.sbdlyrwtbepibolybpibirwbrpqbgwwo—pbjrpo wbrpqbjldw
lxwtbrwt;bnwybiyussbrwbjs.o bylbrwt,bjtnuo bd.jrb.oyusbpybspiybrwbkwss
piswwm,bj.qqswqbjsliwbylbrwtbqwpqbglqna

Uybepibyr.ibyrpybYptcpobkl.oqbrud—YptcpobpoqbVpow,bruibeukw,bpoqbyrwut
ilo,bFltpfbyrwbFusswt,btwy.touo bktldbyrwbdniywtul.ibspoqblkbMps-.s-qlo
ktldberujrbyrwbyelbdwobrpqbtwij.wqbVpowbJspnyloabPybyrwbil.oqblkbyrwut
pmmtlpjrbyrwbj.gblmwowqbruibwnwibpoqbtuiuo ,bkspyywowqbruibwptibpoq
ioptswqbpybyrwd,bgpjfuo bjsliwbp puoiybruibqwpqbdlyrwtabPybiu ryblkbrud
yrwbpmw-dpobiduswqa

“Ms.jfnbsuyyswbqwxus,”brwbjlddwoywq,bypfuo buobyrwbiyltnblkbyrwbytp wqn
pybpbiuo swb spojwabRwbpmmtlpjrwqbyrwbimuyyuo bj.g,bwhmwjyuo buybylby.to
poqbt.obpepn;bg.ybuybquqbolyruo blkbyrwbiltyabUoiywpqbuybioptswqbdltw
kwtljul.isnbpoqbiyt.jfbpybruibwhywoqwqbrpoqbpibrwbiyllmwqbpoqbtwpjrwq
kltbuya

“Erpybpbgtpxwbsuyyswbkwssle,”bjtuwqbVpowab“Mlltbsuyyswbltmrpo!”

“Rw’ib luo bylbdpfwbpb twpybsulo,bltbrwbel.sqbrpxwbukbruibqpdbrpq
suxwq,”bipuqbFltpfab“Sllfbpybyrpybgpjf—pibiytpu rybpoqbiytlo bpibp
imwptabYllbgpqbyrwbtpijpsbrpib lybylbquwa”

“Rwbqlwio’ybrpxwbylbquw,”btwy.towqbYptcpoa

“Yrwtw’ibolybd.jrbjrpojwbkltbrud—rw’ssbowwqbdusfbkltbpbjl.mswblkbdloyri
dltw,bpoqberl’ib luo bylb wybuybkltbrud?”

“Ubpd,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoa

“Nl.’twb luo bylbpqlmybrud?”

Yptcpobolqqwqa

FltpfbpoqbVpowbsp. rwqab“Yrpy’ssbgwbkuow,”bjlddwoywqbyrwbkltdwta

“Sltqb twniylfw,bkliywtbdlyrwtbylbyrwbiloblkbO.dp,”bsp. rwqbVpowa

Yptcpobiduswqbeuyrbyrwd,bg.ybrwbquqbolybjwpiwbruibpyywoyuloibyleptqbyrw
j.gabTwpjruo bl.ybi.qqwosnbrwbjp. rybyrwbsuyyswbsulobgnbyrwbijt.kkblk
uyibowjfbpoqbyrwobiytlfuo buyb woysnbrwbypsfwqbylbuybuobpbsle,bjtllouo 
ylowabUbqlbolybfoleberpybrwbipuq;bg.ybmwtrpmibyrwbj.gbquq,bkltbmtwiwoysn
uybjwpiwqbuyibiyt.  swibpoqbolbslo wtbil. rybylbijtpyjrbltbguywbyrw
jptwiiuo brpoqabPkywtbyrpybrwbmujfwqbuyb.mbpoqbrwsqbuybp puoiybrui
gtwpiyabUybquqbolybiwwdbpktpuqbole,boltbquqbuybwxwobgptwbuyibkpo i
p puoiybyruibjsliwbmtlhuduynbylbyrwbwtiyeruswbrpywqbdpo-ijwoya

“Rlebqlbnl.bqlbuy?”bwhjspudwqbVpowbJspnyloa

Yptcpobirt.  wqbruibgtlpqbirl.sqwtiab“Nl.tbfuoqbptwbolybpktpuqblk
nl.—yrwiwbptwbtwpssnbdnbfuoq,bytnbylbjuxusucwbdwbpibnl.beuss,bpoq
mwtrpmibyrpybuibernbyrwnbptwbolybpktpuqblkbdwberwobUb uxwbyrwdbyrwbiu oi
lkbktuwoqirumabWxwobyruibsuyyswbtpijpsbiwwdibylbfolebuy,bqlwio’ybrw?”

“Ubjpobowxwtb.oqwtiypoqbuy,”bjlddwoywqbFltpfab“UbyruofbUbpdbtpyrwt
kpdusuptbeuyrbPktujpobpoudpsi,bnwybUbrpxwo’ybyrwbmlewtblxwtbyrwdbltbyrw
.oqwtiypoquo byrpybnl.brpxwabErnbuibuy?”

“Yrwtwbuibg.yblowbYptcpo,”bipuqbSpqnb twniylfw,bidusuo bpybrwtbilo
ywpiuo sn,bpoqbnwybrwtbylowbepibolybeuyrl.ybpbolywblkbmtuqwa

“TwdwdgwtbyrpybUbepibgltobpdlo bgwpiyibpoq,btpuiwqbgnbgwpiyi,”bYptcpo
twduoqwqbrudab“Mwtrpmibpkywtbpssbdnbkpyrwtbepibpobpmw—nl.bfolebFpsp
psepnibuoiuiywqbyrpybrwbepia”

“Vlro!bRlebjpobnl.?”bwhjspudwqbVpowab“Nl.bfolebmwtkwjysnbewssberlbnl.t
kpyrwtbpoqbdlyrwtbewtwa”

Yptcpobsllfwqbilswdosnbpybruibilobpoqbjsliwq,blowbwnwab“Nl.tbdlyrwt
owxwtbjpobswptobylbpmmtwjupywbyrwbkuowbz.psuyuwiblkbyrwbpoyrtlmluqiabLow
du rybpsdliybyruofbyrpybirwblgvwjywqbylbyrwbi.  wiyulobyrpybirwbrpq
dpywqbeuyrblowblkbyrwda”

“VlrobJspnylo,bUbirpssbowxwtbimwpfbylbnl.bp puobukbnl.bqlo’ybiylmbipnuo 
i.jrbruqwl.ibyruo iabUbpdbpirpdwqblkbnl.abUybuibgpqbwol. rbyrpybnl.bptw
pob.otw wowtpywbeusq-dpo,beuyrl.ybytnuo bylbi.  wiybyrpybnl.bdpnbgwbpo
pmwbuoylbyrwbgpt puoa”



Yrwbslo bvl.townbktldbMps-.s-qlobepibpsdliybjldmswywq—uoiuqwbyrwbewwf
yrwnbirl.sqbgwbp puobpybyrwbiuywblkbyrwutbkltdwtbrldwabErwyrwtbponyruo 
olebtwdpuowqblkbyrwbt.uoibyrwb wtdpoibrpqbswkybepibmtlgswdpyujpsabYrw
gptoibpoqbl.yrl.iwibrpqbpssbgwwobg.towqbpoqbyrwbuoywtultblkbyrwbg.o psle
mptyupssnbetwjfwqabYrliwblkbyrwbEpcutu,byrwbkpuyrk.sbopyuxwbtwypuowtiblk
yrwb twniylfwi,berlbrpqbolybgwwobfusswqbgnbRp.mydpobKtuycbIjrowuqwt’i
ilsquwti,brpqbtpssuwqbylbyrwbgwpyblkbyrwbept-qt.dbpoqb lowbylbmspjw
yrwdiwsxwibpybyrwbquimlipsblkbyrwbWo suirbuoberpywxwtbjpmpjuynbyrwn
du rybgwbkl.oqb.iwk.sbylbyrwb twpybjp.iwblkbr.dpouynabYruibd.jrbYptcpo
rpqbfoleobgwkltwbrwbiwybl.ybuobiwptjrblkbSpqnbVpow;bg.ybrlebdponblkbrui
eptsufwbEpcutubrpqbi.txuxwqbyrwbeptbpoqberpybk.tyrwtbrpqbgwkpsswobrui
xpiybwiypywibrwbquqbolybfoleabEpoqwtuo bytugwiblkbopyuxwi,bltbtpuquo 
gpoqiblkbPtpgbispxwtibdu rybrpxwbjldmswywqbyrwbqwdlsuyulobuop. .tpywqbgn
yrwbR.o,bpoqbuybepibsufwsn,byll,byrpybyrwbv.o swbrpqbiewmyb.mbpoq
twjspudwqbuyibleo,bjlxwtuo bruibjswptuo ibpoqbg.tnuo bpduqiybuyibtulyblk
s.irbxwtq.twbwxwtnbiu oblkbdpo’ibgtuwkbytwimpiib.mlobuyibeltsq-lsq
mtwiwtxwia

Klssleuo byrwbpqlmyuloblkbyrwbyuonbO.dp,bYptcpobepibjldmwsswqbylbpo
uddwqupywbjloiuqwtpyuloblkbyrwbowwqiblkbruib_mtlyé é_buobmspoouo brui
dptjrwibpoqbruibrpsyi,bkltbyrwbj.gbd.iybrpxwbi.iywopojwbpoqbyrpy
i.iywopojwbjl.sqbgwbop. rybg.ybdusfabSulo’ibdusfbepibl.yblkbyrw
z.wiyulo,bg.ybklty.opywsnbyrwnbewtwbolebuobpbjldmptpyuxwsnbewssbmwlmswq
jl.oytnberwtwbxussp wibewtwbolybuoktwz.woybpoqberwtwbyrwb twpybSltqblk
yrwbV.o swbepibfoleo,bkwptwq,bpoqbtwimwjywq,bpoqbilbuybepibyrpyb.mlobyrw
pkywtolloblkbyrwbqpnbrwbrpqbkl.oqbyrwbnl.o bsulobYptcpobpmmtlpjrwqbp
xussp wbkltbyrwbm.tmliwblkblgypuouo bdusfbkltbyrwbj.ga

Pybkutiybyrwbopyuxwibpmmwptwqbi.sswobpoqbuoqukkwtwoy,bsllfuo beuyr
jloywdmyb.mloberuywiberlbytpxwswqbeuyrl.ybpbspt wbipkptu—euyrbjloywdmy
poqbeuyrl.ybkwptabEuyrbolbipkptubyrwiwbiytpo wtibjl.sqbjpttnbolbmtwiwoyi
kltbyrwd,boltbponyruo berwtweuyrbylbtwmpnbkltbyrwbkllqbyrwnbel.sq
ql.gyswiibqwiutw,bpoqbeuyrbolbpifptubyrwnbjl.sqbolybqwdpoqbkllq,blt
tpyrwtbyrwnbjl.sqbolybwokltjwbpobltqwt,boltbjl.sqbyrwnbmtlywjy
yrwdiwsxwibirl.sqbuybiwwdbeltyrberuswbylbdlswiybyrwdabI.sswobpoq
uoqukkwtwoybyrwbopyuxwibiwwdwq,bnwybyrwnbewtwbijptjwb.ojlojwtowq,byrwut
j.tuliuynbgwuo bptl.iwqbgnbyrwb.o.i.psbpmmptwsbpoqbltopdwoypyuloblk
yrwiwberuywiabYrwnbipebyrwdbpsdliybpibopfwqbpibyrwdiwsxwibpoqbptdwq
iudusptsnbwhjwmybyrpyblow,byrwbnl.o wtbdpo,bjpttuwqbpbtukswabPssbyrtww
eltwbyrwbytpmmuo iblkbMps-.s-qlo,bmtuduyuxwbpoqbgptgptuj,bpoqbwoyutwsn
iytpo wbylbyrwbwnwiblkbyrwbiudmswbgspjfia

“Erwtwbuibnl.tbjruwk?”bpifwqbYptcpobpibrwbiytlqwbuoylbyrwbxussp w
pdlo iybyrwbeldwo,byrwbjrusqtwo,bpoqbyrwbnpmmuo bql ia

Pbkwebqlcuo bepttultibtliwbktldbyrwbirpqleiblkbyrwbr.yiberwtwbyrwnbrpq
gwwobsnuo bpoqbpmmtlpjrwqbyrwbowejldwtia

“Yrwbjruwkbiswwmi,”btwmsuwqblowab“Erlbptwbnl.bylbpepfwobrud?bErpybqlbnl.
epoy?”

“Ubeuirbylbimwpfbylbnl.tbjruwkab lbpoqbkwyjrbrud!”

Yrwbepttultbsllfwqbpybrudbuobeuqw-wnwqbpdpcw,bpoqbyrwobgtlfwbuoylbpbsl.q
sp. ra

“Yrwbjruwkbd.iybgwbgtl. rybylbrud,”brwbjtuwq,bpqqtwiiuo bruibkwsslei,
poqbyrwo,bsp. ruo bsl.qsn,brwbispmmwqbruibyru rbpoqbo.q wqbyrliwbowptwiy
rudbeuyrbruibwsgleia

“Ywssbrud,”bjloyuo.wqbyrwbpmw-dpo,b“yrpybYptcpobel.sqbimwpfbeuyrbruda”

Uoiypoysnbyrwbpyyuy.qwblkbruibp.quyltib.oqwtewoybpbtwdptfpgsw
ytpoikltdpyulo—yrwnbkwssbgpjfbktldbrudbpoqbyrwnbjwpiwqbsp. ruo —yrwut
wnwibxwtnbeuqwbpoqbtl.oqabRwberlbrpqbsp. rwqbsl.qwiybgwjpdwbi.qqwosn
ilswdoab“Gtuo bdpyi,”brwbjtuwq,b“kltbYptcpobpoqbruibmwlmswbylbiuyb.mlo,
eruswbUbkwyjrb.dpo pbyrwbjruwk,”bpoqblkkbrwbtpobpibkpiybpibrwbjl.sqbpi
yrl. rb spqblkbyrwbwhj.iwbylbwijpmwbyrwbmtwiwojwblkbyrwbdu rynblowbrw
kwptwqbrwbrpqblkkwoqwqa

Uybdpqwbolbqukkwtwojwbolebyrpybyrwnbrpqbolbipkptu,bolbpifptu,boltbpon
mtwiwoyiabYrwbxussp wtibewtwbxnuo beuyrblowbpolyrwtbylbqlbyrwdbrlolta
Wxwobgwkltwbyrwbjruwkbjpdwbdponbrpqbpstwpqnbgtl. rybmtwiwoyiblkbkllqbpoq
ltopdwoyiabMtwiwoysnb.dpo pbpmmwptwqabRwbepibpoblsqbdpoberlbrpqbgwwobp
jruwkbwxwobgwkltwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibepibgltoabRuibdpoowtbepi
mpytuptjrpsbpoqbqu oukuwqbpoqbrwb twwywqbruib .wiybpiblowb twpybdpo
du ryb twwybpolyrwt,bnwybrwbepib.oqwoupgsnbmswpiwqbyrpybyrwbSltqblkbyrw
V.o swbrpqbrloltwqbruibxussp wbeuyrbpbxuiuya

ErwobYptcpobwhmspuowqbruibeuirwibpoqbwhruguywqbyrwbsulobj.gb.dpo p
pii.twqbrudbyrpybyrwtwbel.sqbgwbdusfbp-mswoynbilbslo bpibYptcpobrloltwq
yrwdbeuyrbruibmtwiwojw—eptdbdusf,bktwirbktldbyrwbjruwk’ibleob lpyiabPi
yrwnbmpspxwtwqbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibfwwobwnwibyllfbuobwxwtnbqwypusblkbyrw
xussp wbpoqbuyibmwlmsw,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbyrwnbpsu rywqb.mlobpbspt wbguyjr
pdlo byrwbo.dwtl.ibj.tibyrpyblxwttpobyrwbr.yibpoqbyrwbiytwwyabRwtb.qqwt
epibielsswobeuyrbdusfbpoqbyrwbiu ryblkbuybi.  wiywqbpbmspobylbYptcpoabRw
vwtfwqbpbyr.dgbuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbpoudpsab“Ubel.sqbg.nbrwt,”brw
ipuqbylb.dpo pa

“Irwbuibnl.ti,bGepop,beuyrl.ybmpndwoy,”btwmsuwqbyrwbjruwkab“Irwberwsmwq
yelbqpnibiuojwbpoqbspiybou rybrwtbm.mibewtwbpssbiylswobktldbrwtbowiy,
ql.gyswiibgnbpb twpybiopfw;bg.ybukbnl.beussbpjjwmybyrwdbUbeussb uxwbnl.
uoiywpqbpibdponbnl.o wtbpoqbkpyywtbql ibpibnl.beuir,bkltbUbpdbi.twbyrpy
yruiblowbel.sqbmtlxwbmlltbwpyuo a”

“Ubqlbolybeuirbylbwpybrwt,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoab“Ubeussbypfwbrwtbpslo beuyr
dwbylbk.touirbdusfbkltbyrwbj.gabRpxwbrwtbgtl. rybylbdwa”

Ildwbglnibyrwobjp. rybyrwbpoudpsbpoqbynuo bpbyrlo bpgl.ybuyibowjf
qtp  wqbuybylbyrwbpmw-dpoabSufwbyrwbsulo,byrwbql bepibpybkutiybpktpuq,
kltbyrwbijwoyblkbyrwbYptdpo poubepibolybpibyrwbijwoyblkbyrwbgspjfi,bpoq
uybioptswqbpoqbiopmmwqbpybuyibowebdpiywt;bg.ybpybswo yrbrwbelobyrw
poudps’ibjlokuqwojwbilbyrpybuybspnbz.uwysnbgwiuqwbrudberuswbrwbiytlfwq
uyibrwpqabYlb wybyrwbsulobjsliwbylbuybepi,brlewxwt,bpolyrwtbdpyywt,bklt
rwtwbglyrbewtwbywttukuwqbgnbyrwbwowdnbijwoyblkbyrwblyrwt—yrwbsulo
ioptsuo bpoqbimuyyuo bpoqbyrwbql bgptw-kpo wqbpoqb tlesuo abUybtwz.utwq
mpyuwojw—uokuouywbmpyuwojw—g.ybpybspiybyrwbyruo bepibpobpjjldmsuirwq
kpjybpoqbyrwbj.tbguyjrbi.jfswqbyrwbiloblkbO.dpabR.o wtbrpqbi.jjwwqwqbuo
lxwtjlduo byrwbopy.tpsbi.imujuloblkbyrwbsulo,beruswbyrwbkutdbnwybfuoqsn
pyyuy.qwblkbyrwbpmw-dpobrpqbelobyrwbjlokuqwojwblkbyrwbjpouow,berujrbrpq
gwwobpjj.iyldwqbyrtl. rbsukwbylbdltwblkbj.kkibpoqbfujfibyrpobfuoqowiia

Yrpybou rybYptcpobrpqbyrwbql byuwqbuobyrwbr.ybrwbljj.muwq,bpoqbyeujw
gwkltwbdltouo brwbdpqwbrwtbsuwberuswbyrwbj.gbkwqabYrwbowhybqpnbyrwnbyllf
swpxwblkb.dpo pbpoqbruibmwlmswbpoqbeuyrbyrwbql biyussb.mlobpbswpir
ytlyyuo bgwiuqwbyrwdbyrwnbiwyblkkblojwbdltwbyleptqbrldw,byrwbnl.o bsulo
j.qqswqbuobyrwbrlssleblkblowblkbYptcpo’ibptdibltbjpttuwqbuobpbipjfbis.o 
pjtliibruibirl.sqwta

YrwnbopdwqbyrwbsulobVpq-gps-vp,berujrbuobyrwbspo .p wblkbyrw
muyrwjpoyrtlmublkbMps-.s-qlo,bdwpoibyrwb lsqwobSulo,bgwjp.iwblkbrui
jlsltabWxwtnbqpnbrwbgwjpdwbdltwbpjj.iyldwqbylbyrwdbpoqbylbruibkliywt
dlyrwt,berlbkuopssnbjpdwbylbpjjwmybrudbpibkswirblkbrwtbkswirabYrwbguyjr
yrwnbjpsswqbCp,bdwpouo b utsabYrwbiwjloqbqpnbyrwnbtwdlxwqbrwtbswpirbpoq
irwbklsslewqbyrwdbeussuo snbyrtl. rbyrwbv.o sw,boltbwxwtbpkywtbquqbirw
iwwfbylbswpxwbyrwd,boltbepibrpmmnb.oswiibirwbepibowptblowblkbyrwbyrtwwa

Pibyrwbdldwoybpmmtlpjrwqberwobyrwbytpusbirl.sqbgtwpfbktldbyrwbv.o sw
loylbyrwbwq wblkbyrwbtlssuo bmspuoberwtwbyrwutbrldwbrpqbgwwo,byrwbyrtww
ewtwbkusswqbeuyrbi.mmtwiiwqbwhjuywdwoy,byrl. rbolowb.yywtwqbpbinsspgsw
lkbyrwbrlmwbpoqbkwptbyrpybepibuobyrwbrwptyblkbwpjrabErpybel.sqbyrwn
kuoq?bErpyb_jl.sq_byrwnbkuoqblyrwtbyrpobyrwbipdwbypo swqbdpiiblk
xw wypyulobyrpybyrwbpmw-dpobrpqbjswptwqbpepnbylbg.usqbruibrldwberwo
kutiybrwbrpqbjldwbyrwtwbeuyrbruibgtuqw?

Pybspiybyrwnbiywmmwqbktldbyrwbjlojwpsuo bxwtq.twblkbyrwbkltwiybylbsllf
l.ybpjtliibyrwbmspuoberwtw,buobyrwbquiypojw,byrwbl.ysuowiblkbyrw
g.o pslebrpqblojwbgwwobjswptsnbquijwtougswbowiyswqbpduqiybyrwbytwwibpoq
irt.gibyrpybrpqbgwwobtwypuowqbltbudmltywqbylbgwp.yuknbyrwb tl.oqia

“Sllf!”bjtuwqbSpqnbVpowab“Uybuibyrwtw—uybuibiyussbyrwtw!”

“G.yberpybptwbyrliwblyrwtbyruo ibylbyrwbswky,bgwnloqbuy?”bpifwqbFltpfa

“Yrwnbptwbyrwbr.yiblkbopyuxwi,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoa

“Yrwbkuwsqibptwbgwuo bj.syuxpywq!”bwhjspudwqbyrwbeldpoa

“Poqbildwblkbyrwbl.yg.usquo ibrpxwbgwwobtwg.usy,”bipuqbYptcpoab“Uybjpo
dwpobg.yblowbyruo —yrwbEpcutubrpxwbjldwbgpjfbktldbyrwbept—dnbkpuyrk.s
EpcutuabYrwnbrpxwbtwiyltwqberpybyrwbR.obqwiytlnwqbpoqbptwbepyjruo blxwt
l.tbrldwb.oyusbewbtwy.toa”




[Uss.iytpyulo:bRwbjp. rybyrwbsuyyswbsulobgnbyrwbijt.kkblkbuyibowjf]




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbUU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbYTPUOUO bLKbVPQ-GPS-VP


POQbilbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bpoqbVpowbJspnylo,bpoqbFltpfbjpdwbrldwbpkywtbp
slo bpgiwojwbpoqbeuyrbyrwdbjpdwbVpq-gps-vp,byrwb lsqwobsulo,bpoqbCp,byrw
guyjrabPdlo byrwbkutiybylbdwwybyrwdbpoqbylbewsjldwbyrwdbrldwbepiblsq
D.xutl,bkpyrwtblkbEpiudg.,berlbrpqb uxwobruibsukwbuobqwkwoiwblkbyrwbrldw
poqbeukwblkbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“Pr,bGepop,”bjtuwqbyrwbkpuyrk.sbgspjf,b“dnblsqbwnwibptwbdpqwbnl.o bp puo
gnbyrwbiu ryblkbnl.abUybrpibgwwobslo byrpybnl.brpxwbgwwob low,bg.y
yrl. rbdponbql.gywqbyrpybnl.bel.sqbtwy.to,blsqbD.xutlbfowebyrpybyrw
 twpybeltsqbrwsqbolyruo byrpybdu ryblxwtjldwbruibdpiywtabPoqbilbrwbfowe,
yll,byrpybruibdpiywtbel.sqbtwy.tobylbyrwbrldwblkbruibslxwbpoqbyrwbspoq
erwtwbruibkpuyrk.sbEpcutubpepuywqbrud;bg.ybyrpybirw,berldbewbrpxw
dl.towqbpibqwpq,birl.sqbrpxwbtwy.towqbuibgwnloqbgwsuwk,bpoqb twpybirpss
gwbyrwbtwvlujuo buobyrwbr.yiblkbyrwbEpcutubylou ryabPoqbyrwbwptyrbirpss
ytwdgswbylbyrwbqpojuo bkwwyblkbyrwbepttultibpoqbyrwbrwpxwoibtuo beuyr
yrwb spqbjtuwiblkbyrwutbeldwo,biuojwbyrwbyrtwwbyrwnbslxwbdliyblobwptyr
rpxwbjldwbgpjfbylbyrwda”

Poqbuobyt.yr,b twpybuoqwwqbepibyrwbtwvlujuo buobyrwbr.yiblkbyrwbEpcutua
Poqbolybkltblowbou rybpslow,bg.ybkltbdponbou ryibquqbyrwbqpojuo bpoqbyrw
twvlujuo bjloyuo.wb.oyusbYptcpobepibjldmwsswqbylbm.ybpbiylmbylbyrw
kwiyuxuyuwibyrpybrwbpoqbruibkpdusnbdu ryb puobpbkwebrl.tiblkb.ogtlfwo
is.dgwtabYrwbpmw-dpobkl.oqbyrpybolyblosnbrpqbruibkpuyrk.sbEpcutu,b.oqwt
yrwbwz.pssnbkpuyrk.sb .uqpojwblkbruibWo suirbkltwdpo,bVwtxui,bjldmswywsn
twrpgusuypywqbruibiypgswi,bjlttpsi,bpoqbl.yg.usquo ibpibewssbpibyrw
opyuxwbr.yi,bg.ybrpqbtwiyltwqbyrwbuoywtultblkbyrwbg.o psle,bilbyrpybuo
pssbl.yeptqbpmmwptpojwibyrwbmspjwbepibmtwjuiwsnbpibuybrpqbgwwobgwkltw
yrwbtpuqblkbyrwb wtdpoia

VwtxuibepibpybOputlgublobyrwbg.iuowiiblkbyrwbwiypyw,bpoqbuybepibildw
qpnibpkywtbyrwutbpttuxpsbyrpybrwbtwy.towqbylbyrwbtpojrabRuibi.tmtuiwbpoq
rpmmuowiibewtwbolbswiib wo.uowbyrpobyrliwblkbyrwbEpcutuabEuyrbyrwbjruwk
poqbepttultibrwbipybkltbrl.tibpybyrwbkwwyblkbyrwbGu bGepop,bsuiywouo byl
pobpjjl.oyblkbyrwbiytpo wbspoqblkbMps-.s-qlobpoqbyrwbpqxwoy.twibyrpybrpq
gwkpsswobyrwbyrtwwbq.tuo bSpqnb twniylfw’ibjpmyuxuynbyrwtw,bpoqbeuyrbyrw
Epcutubrwbdptxwswqbpybyrwbz.wwtbmwyibyrwbpmw-dpobrpqbgtl. rybgpjfbeuyr
rudabYrpybYptcpobdu rybrpxwbkpojuwqbpbdlo twsbopyuxwbj.tbepibiytpo w
wol. r,bg.ybyrpybrwbirl.sqbrpxwbpqlmywqbpbj.gblkbruibrwtwquyptnbwowduwi,
O.dpbpoqbIpglt,biwwdwqbgwnloqbpssbgwsuwkabPoqbwz.pssnbi.tmtuiuo bylbyrwd
pssbepibyrwbdpoowtblkbYptcpo’ibwq.jpyuloblkbyrwbj.ga

Yrwb lsqwobsulobpoqbruibkliywtbdlyrwtbljj.muwqbpbjltowtblkbyrwbpmw-dpo’i
gwqtlld,bpoqbdponbepibyrwbrl.tbwpjrbqpnbyrpybrwbimwoybuobytpuouo bpoq
wq.jpyuo byrwbsuyyswbimlyywq,bnwsslebgpss—pssbmspnk.sowiibpoqbpkkwjyulo
ole,bg.yblowbqpnbylb tlebuoylbpb twpy,bipxp wbgwpiyblkbmtwna

Pibyrwbqpnibmpiiwqbpoqbyrwb lsqwobsulob twe,bYptcpobyp. rybuybdpon
ytujfi—ylbkwyjrbpoqbjpttn,bylbsuwbdlyuloswiibuobruquo bpybruibpsdliy
uop.qugswbeltqblkbjlddpoq,bylbdlxwbktldbmluoybylbmluoybpibrwbuoqujpywq,
ylbr.oybkltbruqqwobyruo ibgnbijwoybpoqbylbtwytuwxwbyrwd,bpoqberwobdwpy
epibpqqwqbylbuyibquwybrwbkwqbuybpsepnibuobpbepnbyrpybgtl. ryb tudbiduswi
ylbyrwbipxp wbsumiblkbyrwbEpcutubepttulti,bkltbYptcpobrpqbg.usybkltbrud
pbq.ddnbuobyrwbiwdgspojwblkbpbdpobpoqbyrwbdwpybyrpybyrwbsulobepibylbwpy
epibkpiywowqbpsepnibpybyrwbyrtlpyblkbyrwbq.ddnabOwxwtbquqbyrwbdpoowtblk
kwwquo bxptnabPybpbeltqbktldbyrwbpmw-dpobyrwb lsqwobsulobel.sqbjtl.jr,
gwssnbylbyrwb tl.oq,bpoqbyrwobYptcpobel.sqbmluoybpybyrwbq.ddnbpoq
eruimwtbyrwbiuo swbeltqb“fussa”bRlewxwtbr.o tnbrwbdu rybgw,byrwbsulo
swptowqbowxwtbylbdlxwbyleptqbruibdwpyb.oyusbyrpybiuo swbeltqbrpqbgwwo
.yywtwqbgnbuyibdpiywt;bpoqbyrwobeuyrbpbt.irbpoqbpbipxp wb tlesbuybqtlxw
iytpu rybkltbyrwbkswirabEruswbuybepibsuyyswbuybrpqbqukkuj.synbpybkutiy
uobjspdgwtuo b.mbyrwbq.ddnbylbyrwbipxltnbdltiwsbkpiywowqbpybyrwbku .tw’i
yrtlpy,bg.ybpibuyb tweblsqwtbpoqbspt wtbuyb puowqbyrwblgvwjyuxwbdltw
wpiusn,bpoqbkuopssnbpbiuo swbswpmbel.sqbjpttnbuybylbuyib lpsbpoqbqleo
el.sqb lbyrwbq.ddnb.mlobuyibgpjfbeuyrbyrwbnl.o bsulobywptuo bpybuyi
yrtlpya

Yrwtwbepiblowbswiilobyrpy,blkbpssbyrwblyrwti,bepibdliybqukkuj.sybyl
swptobpoqbuybuibql.gyk.sbyrpybponblyrwtbyrpobYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,btwptwq
gnbgwpiyi,bpdlo bgwpiyi,bjl.sqbrpxwblxwtjldwbyrwbipxp wbgsllq-s.iyblk
yrwbjptouxltwbpoqbtwoqwtwqbruibopy.tpsbuoiyuojybi.giwtxuwoybylbyrwbeuss
lkbruibdpiywtabUybyllfbewwfibpoqbdloyriblkbmpyuwoybwoqwpxltbyl
pjjldmsuirbyruibiuo swbuywdblkbyrwbsulo’ibwq.jpyulo,berujrbjloiuiywqbuo
ywpjruo brudbyrpybpybyrwbeltqb“kwyjr”brwbd.iybkuoqbponbuoqujpywqblgvwjy
poqbtwy.tobeuyrbuybylbruibdpiywt,bwxwobyrwbq.ddnbeuyrbtpebdwpybyuwqbpy
uyibyrtlpy,bpoqbyrpybrwbd.iybolybyl.jrbyrwbdwpyboltbrptdbyrwbq.ddnbolt
ponblyrwtbptyujswbyrpybrwbepibkwyjruo ,bg.ybmspjwbyrwdbjptwk.ssnbpybyrw
pmw-dpo’ibkwwyabPkywteptqbrwbswptowqbpsepnibylbgwbi.twblkbruibtweptq,
erujrb.i.pssnbjloiuiywqbuobpbql.gswbmltyuloblkbyrwbdwpybyrpybrwbslxwq
gwiya

Spqnb twniylfwbpoqbFltpfbewtwblkywobuoywtwiywqbimwjypyltiblkbyrw
wq.jpyuloblkbyrwb lsqwobsulo,byrl. rbyrwbkltdwtbwhmtwiiwqbdniyukujpyulo
pibylbyrwbm.tmliwblkbi.jrbwspgltpywbytpuouo blkbyrwbnl.o bj.gbpoqbildw
dui uxuo ibpibylbyrwbeuiqldblkbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibmtl tpda

“Erpybuobyrwbeltsqbjpobnl.bqlbeuyrbi.jrbpbgt.ywbpkywtbrwbuib tleo?”birw
pifwqab“Rwbguqibkputbylbgwbpbdu rynbO.dpabGwuo bpjj.iyldwqbylbdwobrw
eussbgwb.yywtsnbkwptswiiblkbyrwd,bpoqbrpxuo bkwqbpsepnibpybyrwbyrtlpyblk
pbq.ddnbrwbeussbsllfbyrwtwbpybyrwbyrtlpyblkbsuxuo bdwobkltbruibkllq
rwtwpkywta”

“Rwbeussbkwwqblosnb.mloberpybUbywssbrudbylbkwwq,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“G.ybnl.bqlbolybwhmwjybrudbylbkwwqbpsepnib.mlobdwo?”birwbuoywttl pywq,
sp. ruo sna

“Rwbeussbowxwtbkwwqb.mlobdwoa”

“G.ybrlebjpobnl.bmtwxwoybuy,brpxuo byp. rybrudbktldbj.grllqbpsepnibyl
kwwqb.mlobdwo?”

“Ubpdbpktpuq,bVpow,byrpybnl.b.oqwt-wiyudpywbyrwbuoywssu wojwblkbpbsulo,
ltbwsiwbUbxwtnbd.jrblxwt-wiyudpywbuyabUkbnl.tbyrwltnbuibjlttwjybyrw
rptqwiybmptyblkbdnbeltfbuibnwybgwkltwbdw,bg.ybukbUbpdbtu rybuybui
mtpjyujpssnbjldmswywboleabRlewxwt,bewbeussbwhmwtudwoybpbguybpoqbiww
erujrbuibtu ryabEwbirpssbypfwbVpq-gps-vpbl.yb.mlobyrwbmspuobeuyrb.ibyrui
pkywtolloab pdwbuibmswoyuk.sbpoqbewbirpssbrpxwbolbqukkuj.synbuo
pijwtypuouo bv.iybrlebd.jrbjloytlsbUbrpxwblxwtbnl.o bO.dpbpkywtbpssa”

“U’ssbep wtbpbr.oqtwqbml.oqi,”bipuqbFltpf,bsp. ruo ,b“yrpybrwbqlwibv.iy
erpybrwbvlssnbewssbmswpiwibpkywtbrwb wyibpbypiywblkbsuxwbgsllqa”

“Nl.’twblo,bdnbilo,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“UbyruofbUbpdb luo bylbirlebnl.
poqbnl.tbdlyrwtbyruibpkywtolloberpybnl.bltbponlowbwsiwbowxwtbqtwpdwq
jl.sqbgwbpjjldmsuirwqa”

“Sltqb twniylfw,byrwbeltsq’ibmtwduwtbpoudpsbytpuowt!”bjtuwqbSpqn
 twniylfw,bpoqbYptcpobvluowqbyrwdbuobyrwutbsp. rywta

“Uybuibolybpoudpsbytpuouo ,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Yrwbmspob.mloberujrbU
eltfbel.sqbgwbudmliiugswbylbponlowbg.ybYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabSwyb.ibypfwbp
rnmlyrwyujpsbjpiwbylbuss.iytpywberpybUbdwpoabYrwtwbjldwibylbnl.bildw
jtwpy.twberldbnl.brpyw,berldbgnbuoiyuojybpoqbrwtwquynbnl.bjloiuqwtbp
qwpqsnbwowdnabNl.bptwbpktpuqblkbrudabNl.b.oqwtiypoqbolbeltqbyrpybrw
imwpfiabKuopssn,bgnbdwpoibildwyudwibgt.ypsbrwbudmtwiiwib.mlobnl.tbduoq
ruibeuirwiabNl.bdpnbqlbyrwbyruo brwbepoyi,bg.ybqlbnl.bqlbuybeuyrbp
imutuyblkb.oiwskuirbslnpsyn?bNl.bqlboly—nl.bqlbuyb.oqwtbjldm.siulo,
rpyuo byrwbjtwpy.twbyrpybkltjwibruibeussb.mlobnl.abPybponbdldwoybyrpy
nl.bkwsybuybepibuobnl.tbmlewtbylbqlbil,bnl.bel.sqbquilgwnbrudabNl.bel.sq
wxwob lbk.tyrwt—nl.bel.sqby.tob.mlobrudbpoqbqwiytlnbrudabLobyrwblyrwt
rpoq,byrwtwbjldwibylbnl.blowbeuyrberldbnl.bptwbkpdusupt;brwbuibpbktuwoq,
pbmtlywjyltabRwb.oqwtiypoqibpoqbimwpfibyrwbspo .p wbyrpybnl.b.oqwtiypoq
poqbimwpfabRwbrpibkwqbnl.,brwbrpib puowqbnl.tbjlokuqwojwbgnbfuoqowiibpoq
mtlywjyulo,brwbpifibnl.bylbqlbildwyruo bkltbrudabQlbnl.btwk.iw?bOl,bnl.
lgwnbeussuo snabUybuibyr.ibyrpybyrwb lsqwobsulobeussblgwnbdwa”

“Pibslo bpibuybi.uyibruibm.tmliwbylbqlbil,”bjlddwoywqbFltpfa

“Swybdwb lbpbiywmbkptyrwtbyrwo,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“I.mmliwbyrpybyrui
jtwpy.tw,berldbnl.bslxwbpoqblgwn,brpibyrwbmlewtbylbm.ouir,bwxwobylbfuss
nl.,bukbuybuibowjwiiptnbilbylbqlbylbwokltjwbruibjlddpoqiabRlebyrwobpgl.y
nl.tblgwquwojw?”

“Ew’ssbiww,”bipuqbFltpf,b“rlebwpiusnbyrwb lsqwobsulobeussbdpfwblow
r.oqtwqbml.oqibkltbdwa”

Yrpybpkywtollobyrwnbiwybl.ybpjtliibyrwbmspuo,bVpq-gps-vpbklssleuo 
Yptcpo’ibrltiw’ibrwwsiabYrwnbquidl.oywqbpybpbsuyyswbjs.dmblkbytwwibildw
quiypojwbktldbyrwbg.o pslebpoqbktldbyrwtwbmtljwwqwqbloeptqbeptusnbyleptq
pbiepswbuoberujrbpoywslmwibewtwb.i.pssnbylbgwbkl.oq,bdlxuo b.mberujr
yrwnbjpdwbjp.yul.isnbylbyrwbrwpxnbgt.irbyrpybgltqwtwqbyrwbiepswb.mlo
yrwutbiuqwabYrwtwbepibYptcpo,bVpow,bpoqbFltpf,bpoqbjsliwbgwiuqwbYptcpo
yrwb lsqwobsulo—kl.tbv.o swbr.oywti—poqblkbyrwbkl.tbVpq-gps-vp,byrw
sulo,bepibyrwbswpiybpjjldmsuirwqabIywpsyrusnbyrwnbjtpeswqbyrtl. rbyrw
gt.ir,bijptjwbpbswpkbt.iysuo bylbyrwutbmpiip w,b.oyusbpybspiybyrwn
sllfwqbqleobuoylbyrwbiepswb.mlobpbidpssbrwtqblkbpoywslmwb tpcuo 
mwpjwk.ssnbgwsleabJsliwiybylbyrwdbepibpoblsqbg.jf,bpoqbrudbYptcpo
mluoywqbl.ybuobildwbdniywtul.ibdpoowtbylbVpq-gps-vpa

“Kwyjrbrud,”brwberuimwtwq,bpoqbyrwb lsqwobsulobt.dgswqbpbijptjwbp.qugsw
pjfoleswq dwoyblkbyrwbjlddpoqa

Iywpsyrusnbrwbeltfwqbruibepnbyrtl. rbyrwbgt.irabYrwbpoywslmwibkwqblo,
.oi.imwjyuo abYrwbquiypojwbiwmptpyuo byrwbsulobktldbruibmtwnbepiblxwt
 twpybkltbpbi.jjwiik.sbjrpt w,bpoqbilbVpq-gps-vpbepuywq,bruquo buobyrw
gt.ir,b.oyusbyrwbpoywslmwbirl.sqbwuyrwtb tpcwbjsliwtbylbrudbltby.tobuyi
gpjfbyleptqbrudabOlbil.oqbjpdwbktldbyrwbkl.tbepyjruo byrwb tpcuo 
rwtguxltp,boltbquqbyrwbspyywtb uxwbponbuoqujpyuloblkbpbi.imujuloblkbyrw
owptowiiblkbqpo wtabYrwblsqbg.jfbdlxwqbislesnbjsliwtbylbVpq-gps-vpa
Psdliybudmwtjwmyugsnbyrwbsulobepib pyrwtuo bkltbyrwbjrpt wabYrwblosn
olyujwpgswbdlxwdwoybepibyrwbyeuyjruo blkbruibypus’ibyum,bpoqbyrwo,bpi
su ryouo bktldbyrwbifn,bpibpobpttlebktldbpbgle,brwbirlybktldbuddlgusuyn
ylbytwdwoql.ibimwwqbuobpobuoiypoyabRwbepibpsdliyb.mlobyrwbg.jfbgwkltw
yrwbspyywtbtwpsucwqbyrwbmtlhuduynblkbqpo wt,bpoqbyrwobuybepibyllbspyw,
kltbijptjwsnbrpqbyrwbpoywslmwberwwswqbyrpobyrwbsulobtliwb.mlobuyibruoq
sw ibpoqbiwucwqbuy,beruswbyrwbgpspojwblkbyrwbrwtqbgtlfwbuoylbmtwjumuypyw
ksu rya

“Ole,”bipuqbFltpf,b“ewbirpssbiwwa”

“Rwbeussbgtuo byrwbpoywslmwbylbdw,”bipuqbYptcpobjlokuqwoysna

Yrwb lsqwobsulobrwiuypywqbpbdldwoy,b tlesuo blxwtbyrwbjptjpiiblkbrui
fussabYrwobrwbiwucwqbuybgnbyrwbgpjfbpoqbeuyrbruibrwpqby.towqbylblowbiuqw
qtp  wqbuybpslo byrwb tl.oqbgwiuqwbrud,bpibrwbdpqwbruibepnbislesnbgpjf
yleptqbYptcpoabYrtl. rbyrwbgt.irbrwbqtp  wqbyrwbispuobpoywslmwb.oyusbrw
rpqbqtlmmwqbuybpybyrwbkwwyblkbruibdpiywt,berwtwbrwbiyllq,bsllfuo b.mbpy
yrwbkpjwblkbyrwbpmw-dpobeuyrbpobwhmtwiiulobyrpybjl.sqbolybrpxwbgwwo
jloiyt.wqbuoylbp. rybg.ybmtuqwbuobruibpjruwxwdwoybpoqbpbmswpbklt
jlddwoqpyuloa

Yptcpobiytlfwqbruibrwpqbpoqbimlfwbylbrudbuobpbslebxlujw,bmtpuiuo brud,
poqbyrwo,bqtpeuo bruibr.oyuo bfoukw,brwbj.ybyrwbv. .sptblkbyrwbpoywslmw
poqbswybyrwbgsllqbktldbyrwbjptjpiiabVpowbpoqbFltpfbiyllqbjsliw,bepyjruo 
Vpq-gps-vp—erpybel.sqbyrwbsulobqlbeuyrbyrwbidwssblkbktwir,brlybgsllqbuo
ruiboliytusi?bRwbioukkwqbpybuybpoqb tleswq,bpoqbeuyrbgptwqbkpo ibrwbwnwq
yrwbyrtwwbeujfwqsnabYrwbpmw-dpobm.irwqbrudbpepnbeuyrbruiblmwobmpsdbpoq
yrwbsulob tleswqbp puobpo tusnbpoqbiopmmwqbpybruda

Z.ujfbuibO.dp,bz.ujfbuibGptp,byrwbqwwt,bg.ybYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibui
su ryouo abIlbieukysnbquqbrwbiytufw,bpoqbilbrwpxusn,byrpybVpq-gps-vpbepi
kpssuo blobruibgpjfbpsdliybuobyrwbxwtnbuoiypoybyrpybrwbrpqb tleswqbpy
ruibdpiywtabIeukysnbrwbjpdwbylbruibkwwybp puobpoqbyrwbyelbiyllqbkpjuo 
lowbpolyrwta

“Qleo!”bjlddpoqwqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Suwbqleo,bVpq-gps-vp!”bRuibxlujwbepibsle
poqbkutdabYrwbsulobrwiuypywqbg.ybkltbpobuoiypoy,bpoqbyrwobspnbqleobpi
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibrpqbyp. rybrudbylbqlbpybyrwbeltqblkbjlddpoqabYptcpo
y.towqbpoqbsukywqbyrwbjptjpiiblkbyrwbpoywslmwbylbruibirl.sqwta

“Jldw,”brwbipuqbylbVpq-gps-vpab“Rwws!”bpoqbeuyrl.ybpolyrwtb spojwbpybyrw
jptouxltwbrwbdlxwqblkkbyleptqbyrwbrltiwia

“Ubdu rybrpxwbfoleobuy,”bipuqbFltpf,beuyrbpbsp. r,b“poqbipxwqbdnbr.oqtwq
ml.oqia”

“Lkbjl.tiwbnl.bdu rybrpxwbfoleobuy,”bipuqbruibdlyrwta




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbUUU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbPbDWWYUO bLKbDNIYWTN


PbTPYRWTbpyytpjyuxw-sllfuo ,byrl. rblxwtqtwiiwq,bnl.o beldpobepibquouo 
uobpbiwjloq-tpywbjrlm-rl.iwbuobSloqloabIrwbepibolyujwpgsw,bolybilbd.jr
kltbrwtbkuowbku .twbpoqbjlptiwsnbgwp.yuk.sbkpjwbpibkltbyrwbiucwbpoq
pmmwptpojwblkbrwtbjldmpoulo,bpbspt w,bewss-mtlmltyulowqbdpobuobyrw
duq-yewoyuwi,beuyrbi.jrbpbytwdwoql.ibgwptqbyrpybuyb pxwbrudbyrw
pmmwptpojwblkbruquo buobpdg.irabRwbiyllqbk.ssnbyrtwwbuojrwiblxwtbiuh
kwwyabRuibirl.sqwtibewtwbgtlpq,bruibjrwiybqwwm,bpoqbruibrumibopttleabRui
mrniuz.w,bruibjpttup w,bwxwtnyruo bpgl.ybrud,bi.  wiywqbuoq.guypgsnbyrw
ytpuowqbpyrswywa

Yrwbyelbewtwbuobjsliwbjloxwtipyulo,bpbjloxwtipyulobyrpybljjpiulopssn
 pxwbwxwtnbwxuqwojwblkbgltqwtuo b.mlobrwpywqbpt .dwoya

“Ubywssbnl.,”bipuqbyrwbdpo,b“yrpybUbqlbolybiwwberpybewbowwqblkbyrw
lyrwtiabErnbirl.sqbyrwnbirptwbeuyrb.i—ernbquxuqwbuoylbiuhbmltyuloibyrpy
erujrbnl.bpoqbUbdu rybrpxwbpslow?”

“Uybypfwibdlownbylbjpttnbyrwbmspobyrtl. r,”birwbtwmsuwq,b“poqbowuyrwt
nl.boltbUbrpxwbponbdlownab_Yrwn_brpxwbuybpoqbyrwnbeussbgpjfb.ibeuyr
uy—dwbkltbdnbfoleswq wbpoqbnl.bkltbnl.tbpmmwptpojwbpoqbnl.tbiytwo yra
Yrwnbiwptjrwqbkltbnl.,bWiywgpo,bkltbyelbnwpti,bpoq,bolebyrpybyrwnbrpxw
kl.oqbnl.,bUbirl.sqbolybjptwbylbgwbuobnl.tbirlwibukbnl.bgwytpnwqbyrwda
Yrwnbel.sqbv.iybpibillobisuybnl.tbyrtlpybpiboly,bWiywgpo,bukbyrwnbol
dltwbyrpobyrl. rybyrwnbjl.sqo’yb.iwbnl.,bolebyrpybnl.brpxwbpssbyrw
qwypusiblkbyrwutbmspoabG.ybukbnl.birl.sqbytnbylbypfwbpssbyrwbmtlkuybktld
yrwd—”bIrwbmp.iwq,birt.  uo brwtbirl.sqwtiab“Ol,bdnbqwpt,bUbslxwbsukw
yllbewssbylbvluobnl.buobponbi.jrbjloimutpjnbpibyrpya”

“G.ybUbywssbnl.,bKsltp,bewbl. rybylb wybdltwbl.yblkbuybyrpobyrwnbepoybyl
 uxwabNl.bk.touirbpssbyrwbfoleswq wbpoqbUbypfwbpssbyrwbtuif—ern
irl.sqo’ybewbrpxwbdltwbyrpobpbiuhyrbpmuwjw?”

“Ypsfbylbyrwdbnl.tiwsk,byrwo,bWiywgpo,”bipuqbyrwb uts,beuyrbpbirt. ,
“g.ybukbnl.beussbypfwbdnbpqxujwbnl.beussbgwbipyuikuwqbeuyrberpybnl.bptw
lkkwtwqabOlyblosnbrpxwbUbyrwbuokltdpyulo,beuyrl.yberujrbyrwnbjpobql
olyruo ,bg.ybUbkl.oqbnl.buoylbyrwbgpt puo,bnwybUbqlbolybpifbuybpss—U
irpssbgwbmwtkwjysnbipyuikuwqbeuyrblow-iuhyr,bpoqbUbjpobpii.twbnl.byrpy
ukbnl.bqlbolybd.qqswbyrwbyruo ,blow-iuhyrblkberpybnl.bgtuo bl.ybeussbgw
wol. rbkltbponblowblkb.ibkltbyrwbtwiyblkbruibopy.tpsbsukwa”

Yrwbdpobquqbolybiwwdbjloxuojwq,bpoqbyrwbnl.o beldpobrpqbpbkwwsuo byrpy
rwbel.sqbgwptbepyjruo abTwpssn,birwbfowebxwtnbsuyyswbpgl.ybrud,bpoqbrpq
iwwobrudbuobmwtiloblosnbpbkwebyudwibiuojwbrwtbkutiybquijlxwtnblkbrud
ildwbyelbdloyribgwkltw,b.mlobyrwbijtwwoblkbpbSloqlobjuowdpbrl.iwbuobp
imwjypj.sptbkwpy.twbuoberujrbrwbrpqbmspnwqbyrwbtôswblkbpbTldpobilsquwt
lkbyrwbMtwyltupob .ptqa

Rwtwbruibrwtlujbiucwbpoqbmwtkwjybmrniuz.wbrpqbpslowbwoyuyswqbrudbyl
jloiuqwtpyulo,bkltbruibmptybepibpbduoltblow,bpoqbql.gyswiiblkbpssbyrw
yrl.ipoqiberlbipebrudb.mlobyrwbiusxwtbirwwybKsltpbRpefwibepibyrwblosn
lowberlbyllfbdltwbyrpobpbmpiiuo buoywtwiybuobrud,bpoqbrwtbuoywtwiybepi
ptl.iwq,bolybgnbruibruiytuloujbpgusuyn,bg.ybtpyrwtbgwjp.iwbkltbildwbyel
nwptibirwbpoqbrwtbjlokwqwtpywibrpqbgwwobiwptjruo bkltbi.jrbpbynmwbpi
WiywgpobDutpoqpbilbpqdutpgsnbtwmtwiwoywqabYlbkuoqbrudbuobyrwbkswirbgpqw
kputbylbmtlxwbqukkuj.syblkbpjjldmsuirdwoy,bg.ybpkywtbpbdloyrblk
iwwduo snbkt.uyswiibiwptjruo birwbkuopssnbquijlxwtwqbrudbpdlo bpbijltw
lkbwhytpbdwobpybyrwbiy.qulblkblowblkbSloqlo’ibswiiwtbmtlq.juo 
jldmpouwiabIrwbowwqwqbolblyrwtbjtwqwoyupsibyrpobrwtb llqbsllfibylbkltd
ruibpjz.puoypojw,bpoqberuswbyrpybepibtumwouo buoylbuoyudpjnbirwbdpqwbol
dwoyulobylbrudblkbyrwbtwpsbm.tmliwblkbrwtbpiiljupyulobeuyrbruda

YrpybrwbepibpbImpouptqbpoqbpmmptwoysnblkb llqbkpdusnbepibwxuqwoybylbrwt,
poqbyrpybrwbepib.oijt.m.sl.ibepibylbgwb .wiiwqbgnbyrwbjwswtuynbeuyr
erujrbrwbp twwqbylbypfwbmptybuobyrwbirpqnbytpoipjyulobyrpybrpqbgwwo
jlojwuxwqbuobyrwbduoqblkbKsltpbRpefwi,bpoqbyrwbqwypusiblkberujrbrpqbgwwo
mwtkwjywqbgnbrwtbpoqbrwtbkl.tbjlokwqwtpywiabIl,byrwtwkltw,bfoleuo byrpy
rwbepib.oijt.m.sl.i,birwbepibpeptwbyrpybwxwtnbmtwjp.yulobd.iybgwbypfwo
ylbmtwxwoybrudbypfuo bpqxpoyp wblkbyrwbfoleswq wblkbyrwutbmspobyrpybrw
d.iyblowbqpnbrpxwbuobqwypus,byrwbfwnbylberujrbirw,b.mbylbyrwbmtwiwoy
dldwoy,brpqbfwmybwoyutwsnbylbrwtiwsk,bolybwxwobjlokuquo buybylbponblow
lkbrwtbkl.tblyrwtbjlokwqwtpywia

Yrwnbipybkltbpbdldwoybuobiuswojw,bylnuo beuyrbyrwbwdmynb spiiwibktld
erujrbyrwnbrpqbgwwobqtuofuo abMtwiwoysnbirwbsllfwqb.mbylbkuoqbruib pcw
kuhwqb.mlobrwtbpoqbpobwhmtwiiulobuobruibwnwibyrpybwxwobpbswii
ilmruiyujpywqbeldpobyrpobKsltpbRpefwibdu rybtwpqusnbrpxwbuoywtmtwywqa

“Nl.bjpobdpfwbdwbqlbponyruo bnl.bepoy,bKsltp,”brwbipuq,b“kltberwobUbpd
euyrbnl.bUbklt wybyrwb lsq,bpoqbyruofblosnblkbyrpyblyrwtbtweptqberujr
nl.bjloyuo.pssnbqwonbdw,bg.yberujrblowbqpnbUbirpssbeuoa”

“Slxwbpoqbg.iuowiibqlbolybduhbewss,”btwmsuwqbyrwb utsab“Epuyb.oyusbnl.
rpxwbi.jjwwqwqbuobyruibeltf,bWiywgpo,bpoqbyrwobewbdpnbypsfblkbslxwa”

“Nl.bqlbolybslxwbdw,”brwberuimwtwq,brlptiwsnab“Ubfole—Ubrpxwbiwwo—yrpy
wpjrblkbyrwblyrwtibslxwibnl.abYrpybuibernbUbjl.sqbrpywbyrwdabPoqbukbU
yrl. rybyrpybnl.bslxwqblowblkbyrwd,bUbjl.sqbj.ybruibrwptybl.yabIldwyudwi
Ubrpxwbyrl. rybyrpybnl.bquq—kutiyblowblkbyrwdbpoqbyrwobpolyrwtabNl.bptw
yllbkpdusuptbeuyrbyrwd,bKsltpabUbrpxwbiwwobVlrobMwwgswibiz.wwcwbnl.t
rpoqberwobrwbyrl. rybolblowbepibsllfuo ,bpoqberwobnl.bqpojwbeuyrbQujf
Yrtljfbrwbrlsqibnl.byllbjsliwbpoqbnl.bqpojwbjrwwfbylbjrwwfabUbywssbnl.bU
qlbolybsufwbuy,bKsltp,bpoqblowblkbyrwiwbqpnibUbirpssbklt wybpssbpgl.y
yrwb lsqbpoqbyruofblosnblkbnl.,bpoqbyrwobildwyruo beussbrpmmwobpoqbyrwtw
eussbolybgwbilbdponbylbquxuqwbyrwbuo lyibyrpybUbirpssbgtuo bgpjfbktld
PktujpabPoqbGs.gwtbpoqbFtpifubptwbpsdliybpibgpq;bmwtrpmibFtpifubuibyrw
eltiyblkbpss,bkltbrwbuibpb llq-sllfuo bqwxusbpoqbUbqlbolybsufwbyrwbepn
uoberujrbnl.bjpiybirwwm’ibwnwibpybruda”

Yrwbkutwblkb tleuo bpo wtbepibswpmuo bylbyrwb uts’ibwnwiabEuyrbpobpo tn
 wiy.twbirwbiuswojwqbruda

“Erpybg.iuowiibuibuyblkbnl.ti,b_Iwñlt_bDutpoqp,berlbUbjrlliwbkltbdn
ktuwoqi,bltbrlebUbytwpybyrwdbltbrlebyrwnbytwpybdw?bUbeussbrpxwbnl.
.oqwtiypoqbyrpybUbrpxwbfoleobyrwiwbdwobkltbnwpti,beruswbUbrpxwbfoleobnl.
kltbg.ybpbkwebewwfi,bpoqbukbponbrpibpbtu rybylbqujypywbdnbgwrpxult,
erujr,byrpofb lq,bolowbrpi,buybel.sqbgwblowblkbyrwdbtpyrwtbyrpobnl.a”

Ruibwnwibgspcwqbpo tusna

“UybuibpibUbyrl. ry!”brwbjtuwqab“Nl.bslxwblowblkbyrwda”bRwbrpskbtliw
ktldbyrwbypgswbpoqbswpowqbpjtliibuybyleptqbrwt,bdwopjuo snab“V.iybswybdw
kuoqbl.yberujrblowbuybuibpoqbUbeussbj.ybrudbuoylbmuwjwi!”

Rwbtpobruibkuo wtibyrtl. rbruibslo ,bgspjfbrputb.oyusbuybiyllqb.mblobwoq
sufwbyrwbdpowblkbpobpo tnbsuloabRuibwnwibewtwbgspcuo beuyrbpbsu rybyrpy
iwoybpbjrussblkbqtwpqbyrtl. rbyrwb uts’ibrwptyabRwbpmmwptwqbpbdpo
ywdmltptusnbgwtwkyblkbtwpilo—ukbrwbewtwbolybpbdpoupjbrwbdliybjwtypuosn
sllfwqblow,bpoqbyrwb utsbepibpktpuqbpoqbtwpsucwqbyrpybirwbd.iybmspjpyw
ruda

“Jldw,bjldw,bWiywgpo,”birwberuimwtwqbilkysn,b“yrwtwbuibolbowwqbklt
eltfuo bnl.tiwskbuoylbpbylewtuo btp wblxwtbolyruo abUbrpxwbolybipuqbyrpy
Ubslxwqblowblkbyrwiw,boltbrpxwbUbipuqbyrpybUbqlbolybslxwbnl.,bg.ybUbpd
olyb.iwqbylbgwuo bellwqbuobi.jrbkpiruloabMwtrpmibnl.tbImpouir
_iwñltuypi_bsufwbuy,bg.ybUbpdbpobWo suirb utsbpoqbukbnl.bslxwbdwbytwpy
dwbpibpobWo suirbslxwtbel.sqbytwpybdwa”

“Nl.brpxwbolybipuqbyrpybnl.bslxwqblowblkbyrwiwblyrwti—ol,bg.yblobyrw
lyrwtbrpoqbnl.brpxwbolybipuqbyrpybnl.bqlbolybslxwblowblkbyrwd—ywssbdw,
Ksltp,berujrblowblkbyrwdbuibuybyrpybnl.bslxw?”

Ruibwnwibewtwbiyussbgspcuo ,bpoqbruib twpybktpdwbytwdgsuo beuyr
i.mmtwiiwqbmpiiuloa

“Ubqlbolybslxwbponblkbyrwd,bWiywgpo,”birwbtwmsuwq,b“olt,bpibnwy,bqlbU
slxwbnl.abG.ybUbjl.sq,bWiywgpo,byrpybd.jrbUbeussbywssbnl.abUbjl.sqbslxw
nl.,bWiywgpo,bpibUbjl.sqbowxwtbslxwbpolyrwt,bg.ybUbirpssbolybmwtduy
dniwskbylbqlbilb.oyusbpkywtbnl.brpxwbtwy.towqbpoqbewbptwbktwwbylbsuxw
erwtwbpoqbrlebewbsufwabYrwo,bdpngw—g.y,bwxwobil,bUbqlbolybmtlduiwa”

“Nl.brpqbgwyywtbmtlduiw,”brwbipuq,bi.sswosn,byrl. rbwxuqwoysnbildwerpy
dlssukuwqab“Nl.brpqbgwyywtbmtlduiw,bKsltp,bkltbUbjptwbolyruo bkltbyrw
 lsqbukbUbdpnbolybrpxwbnl.bpsila”

“R.ir,”birwbjp.yulowq,b“rwtwbyrwnbjldwbole,bpoqbuybuibpgl.ybyudw;byrwn
ptwbk.ssnbpbrpsk-rl.tbspywa”

Yrwbdpoby.towqbruibwnwibuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbrwtb pcw,bpoqbyrwbyelbipy
epyjruo byrwbpmmtlpjrblkbkl.tbdwoberlbrpqbv.iybwoywtwqbyrwbjrlm-rl.iwa
YelblkbyrwdbewtwbwxuqwoysnbWo suirdwo—gu ,bdwpynbkwssleiblkbyrwbduqqsw
jspii,berlbsllfwqberpybyrwnbtwpssnbewtw,bkltdwtbm. usuiyi;byrwbyrutq,
PqlsmrbGs.gwt,bepibpbirlty,bkpyb wtdpo,beuyrbpbtl.oq,btwqbkpjwbpoqbp
g.ssbowjf;byrwblyrwt,byrwbnl.o wiyblkbyrwbkl.t,bepibgnbkptbyrwbgwiy
sllfuo abRuibidllyrbkpjw,bjswptbjldmswhulo,bpoqbspt wbqptfbwnwibdu ryblk
yrwdiwsxwibrpxwbmtlxwobi.kkujuwoyb tl.oqibkltbDutpoqp’ibvwpsl.in,bg.y
i.mmswdwoyuo byrwiwbewtwbpbdlmblkbepxn,bgtleobrput,byrwbku .twblkbp
 twwfb lqbpoqbyrwb tpjwblkbpbT.iiupobqpojwt,berujr,buobyt.yr,bepiberpy
JptsbFtpifubepiberwobrwbjrliwbylbgwblyrwtbyrpobpbtl .wa

Yrwb utsb twwywqbyrwbkl.tbmswpipoysn,beruswbyrwbImpouptqbxl.jripkwqbyrwd
g.ybpbiuo sw,bi.tsnbolq,bpibyrwnbkl.oqbjrputibpoqbiwpywqbyrwdiwsxwibpy
yrwbypgswa

“Rpsw!”bjtuwqbMwwgswi,bml.oquo byrwbypgswbylbpyytpjybyrwbpyywoyuloblkbp
epuywt,b“swyb.ib’pxwbrpswa”

Yrwbi.  wiyulobdwybeuyrb.opoudl.ibpmmtlxps,bpoqbpibyrwnbepuywqbkltbyrwut
qtuofbyrwnbimlfwbjpi.pssnblkb.oudmltypoybyruo i;byrwbrwpy,byrw
jutj.diypojwbyrpybrpqbqwspnwqbyrwd,byrwbytuxupsbljj.ttwojwibiuojwbyrwn
rpqbspiybdwy;byrtl. rl.yberujrbWiywgpobipybuobi.sswobiuswojw,bg.ybpkywt
yrwbepuywtbrpqbtwy.towqbpoqbyrwnbqtpofbylbKsltp,beuyrberujrbjwtwdlonbuy
rpqbslo bgwwobyrwutbj.iyldbylbiu opsucwbwpjrb pyrwtuo ,byrwnb lybqleobyl
g.iuowiia

“Ole,”bjtuwqbMwwgswi,bml.oquo byrwbypgswbeuyrbruibdwpynbkuiy,b“’wtwbew
ptw,bpoqbyrpy’ibyrpy!bEwb’pxwbwxwtnyruo ,bKsltp—yrwbmspoi,byrwbdlown,
_Iwñlt_bDutpoqp—poqbptwbvlssnbewssbtwpqn,blsqbqwpt,bkltbnl.tbmptyblk
uya”

“Rlebd.jrbdlownbrpxwbnl.?”bpifwqbKsltpab“Uybuib luo bylbypfwbpbslyblk
dlown,bpoqbyrwtwbuibolb.iwbiyptyuo b.oswiibnl.brpxwbmswoynbylbjpttnblo
euyra”

Mwwgswiby.towqbylbGs.gwtab“Yrwtw,”brwbipuq,bmluoyuo bpbm.q nbkuo wtbpy
rud,b“uibyrwbgsllduo’bytwpi.twtab’Wbjpobywssbnl.b’lebd.jrbewb’pxw,byrw
kpybtpijpsblkbpbQ.yjrdpoa”

Gs.gwtbiduswqbpoblusnbiduswbpoqbt.ggwqbruibkpybmpsdibyl wyrwtab“Xwss,”
rwbipuq,b“rlebd.jrbnl.by’uof,bDuiibKsltp,bxwbirl.sqbrpxw?”

“Olybswiibyrpobyelbyrl.ipoqbml.oqibylbgwblobyrwbipkwbiuqw,”birwbtwmsuwq
z.ujfsna

“_Lu!bLu!_”bwhjspudwqbGs.gwtab“G.ybqlybuibpbslyblkbdlown—yelby’l.ipoq
ml.oqiab_Lu!bLu!_”

Yrwb utsbdpqwbpb wiy.twblkbqui .iyab“Ubylsqbnl.buobyrwbkutiybmspjwbyrpy
Ubel.sqo’ybrpxwbponyruo bylbqlbeuyrbpbg.ojrblkbjrwpmbijtwei,bpoqbyrpy
.oyusbnl.brpqbwol. rbdlownbylbjpttnbyrwbyruo bl.ybmtlmwtsnbUbel.sqboly
 uxwbnl.byrwbdpmibpoqbqutwjyuloi,beuyrl.yberujrbnl.bjpoolybrlmwbylbtwpjr
yrwbxp.syi,berwtwbyrwtwbuibiyltwqbwol. rb lsqbylbg.nbyruiberlsw,byu ry,
suyyswbuispoqbukbrpskbyrpyberpybUbrpxwbrwptqbyrwdbipnbpgl.ybuybuibyt.wa
Nl.bjpob lbpslo bpoqbimwoqbnl.tbleobdlown,bg.ybnl.’xwb lybylbirlebdw
yrpybnl.brpxwbpybswpiybyelbyrl.ipoqbml.oqibylbimwoqbgwkltwbUb uxwb.mbyrw
uokltdpyulobyrpybeussbdpfwbnl.byrwbtujrwiybdwobuobyrwbeltsqa”

“Yrwbgsu rywt’ib lybyrwbdlown,”b tleswqbYrtljfab“GsudwbukbUbfoleberpy
rw’ibgwwkuo’bpgl.ya”

“Rwbjpo’ybrwsmbuy,”b tleswqbyrwbT.iiupo,b“uy’ibpbtpjupsbjrptpjywtuiyuj;
Gs.gwtbel.sqbytnbylbvwebqleobyrwbdpttup wbsujwoiwbjswtfbukbrwbewtwb luo 
ylb wybdpttuwqa”

“Lr,bxwss,”biu rwqbGs.gwt,b“kltbxnbirl.sqbewbimwoqbdltwbdlownbyrpobui
owjwiiptn?bUkbxwbjpobqlbuybkltbxlowby’l.ipoqbml.oqibilbd.jrbyrwbgwyywta”

“Jwtypuosn,”biopmmwqbyrwb uts,b“poqbukbuybqlo’ybypfwbg.yblowbyrl.ipoq,
yrpybuibpssbyrpybnl.beussbrpxwbylbimwoq,bg.ybnl.’xwb lybylbrpxwbyrwbyel
yrl.ipoqbuobjpiwblkbwdwt wojuwi,bpoqbktldberpybUbrpxwbiwwoblkbyrpy
jl.oytnbnl.bptwbsufwsnbylbt.ob.mbp puoiybdltwbwdwt wojuwibyrpobponyruo 
wsiwa

“_Lu!bLu!_”bjtuwqbGs.gwta

“’W’ib lybyrwbdlownbpssbtu ry,”bipuqbMwwgswi,b“olebswy’ib wybg.ina”

“Rwbdpnbrpxwbuy,bg.ybUbepoybylbiwwbuybkutiy,”btwmsuwqbyrwb utsa

“Xpybnl.by’uof;bUbjpttnbpssbqlybdlownbptl.oqbuobdnbmljfwy?”bjtuwq
Gs.gwta

“Jpo’ybnl.bypfwbl.tbeltqbkltbuy?”b t.dgswqbYrtljfa

“Nl.’twbpboujwbg.ojrblkbjtllfibylbpifbdwbyrpy,”birwbtwmsuwq,bsp. ruo buo
yrwbkpjwblkbyrwbg.tsnbt.kkupoiab“U’ssbypfwbJpts’ibeltqbkltbuy,byrl. r;
ukbrwbywssibdwbyrpybnl.brpxwbuy,bpoqbyrpybuybuibuobi.jrbirpmwbyrpybuy
jpo,bpoqbeuss,bgwb.iwqbylbmpnbpssbyrwbowjwiiptnbwhmwoiwiblkbl.t
whmwquyulo,bUbeussbgwsuwxwbruda”

MwwgswibpoqbYrtljfbijleswqbpo tusn,bpoqbDutpoqp’ibwnwibjsliwqbylbyel
opttle,bopiynbisuyi,bpibrwbqutwjywqbruib pcwb.mlobyrwbT.iiupoabGs.gwt,
lobyrwbjloytptn,bepibpkkwjywqbolybpybpss;byrwbdltwbrwbepibuoi.sywq,byrw
gwyywt,bpmmptwoysn,brwbsufwqbuyabYleptqblowberlbytwpywqbrudbeuyr
jloiuqwtpyulobltbtwimwjybrwbel.sqbrpxwbgwjldwbpttl poy,beruswbrwbkpeowq
.mlobyrwbrpoqbyrpybiyt.jfbrudabFtpifu,bpslow,biduswqbpbiwsk-ipyuikuwq
iduswbyrpybiwybyrwbgsllqblkbyrwbImpouptqbglusuo a

“Gs.gwtbrpibyrwbdlown,bKsltp,”brwbipuq;b“wpjrblkb.ibrpibjloytug.ywqbrui
irptwabEw’ssbdpfwbGs.gwtbytwpi.twt,bgwjp.iwbewbfolebyrpybrwbeussbiz.wwcw
yrwbspiybkptyruo b.oyusbuybirtuwfibgwkltwbrwbeussbswybuybwijpmwbrudabUy
uibl.tbmspobolebylbiwybl.ybktldbSloqlobuobmputia”

Rwbqtwebpbdpmbktldbruibmljfwy,bpoqb.oklsquo buy,bimtwpqbuybl.yb.mlobyrw
ypgswbgwkltwbyrwdabEuyrbruibkuo wtbrwbuoqujpywqbpbmluoybdptfwqbHab“Rwtw
ewbeussbdwwybpoqbrwtwbewbeussbwz.umbl.tbwhmwquyuloabGs.gwtbpoqbDutpoqp
eussb lbkutiy;byrwobMwwgswibpoqbYrtljfabGnbyrwbyudwbyrpybnl.bpoqbU
pttuxwbwxwtnyruo beussbgwbuobirpmwbkltbdlxuo buddwqupywsnbuoylbyrw
uoywtult,berwtwbewbirpssbwiypgsuirbpbmwtdpowoybjpdm,blkkbyrwbgwpywo
ytpjfbpoqbpibowptbl.tblgvwjyuxwbpibmliiugswabDutpoqpbeussbquimlty
rudiwskbgwruoqbruiberuifwtib.oyusbrwbuibtwpqnbylbiwybl.yb.mlobyrwbkuops
iyp wblkbruibslo bvl.townabUb.oqwtiypoqbyrpybrwbuibewssbijrllswqbuobyrw
mptybyrpybrwbuibylbmspnbpoqbyrpybrwbjpobqwmujybyrwbjrptpjywtbyl
mwtkwjyuloabPibrwbeussbrpxwblosnbu oltpoybopyuxwibpoqbeusqbgwpiyibyl
qwjwuxwbuybirl.sqbolybyphbruibruiytuloujbpgusuynbyllb twpysna”bYrwtwbepi
pbxwuswqbolywblkbiptjpidbuobyrwbilky,bqtpesuo bylowbyrpybjp.iwqbyrw
gspjfbwnwiblkbyrwbImpouptqbylb swpdbeujfwqsna

“QlbUb.oqwtiypoq,”bpifwqbDutpoqp,bruibilkybylowbgwsnuo bruibpo tnbijles,
“yrpybnl.bpoqbDuiibRpefwibytpxwsbpslowbylbH?”

“Nl.bql,b.oswiibnl.tb.oqwtiypoquo buibmllt,”btwmsuwqbyrwbT.iiupoa

YrwbImpouptqbrpskbtliwbktldbyrwbypgswbpoqbswpowqbpjtliibuybdwopjuo sn
yleptqbFtpifuabYrwb uts,berlbepibiuyyuo bowhybylbrud,biwucwqbruibjlpya

“Olowblkbyrpy!”birwbipuq,bqtp  uo brudbgpjfbuoylbruibjrputab“Yrwtwbrpi
gwwobyllbd.jrblkbuybpdlo bnl.bpstwpqn,bpoqbukbyrwtwbuibponbdltwbUbirpss
j.ybnl.bpssbpoqbiwwfbdltwbjlo woupsbjldmpouloibkltbdnbwhmwquyuloa”

“Nwi,bj.ybuybl.y;b’wtwbewbptw,bpoqbyrpy’ibyrpy!”bwhjspudwqbMwwgswi
gwssu wtwoysna

“Vlro’ibtu ry,”bt.dgswqbYrtljf,buobruibqwwmbgpii,b“poqbU’dbrwtwbylbgpjf
rudb.mabKsltp’ibtu ry,bpoqbU’dbrwtwbylbgpjfbrwtb.mabPoqbukbyrwtwbuibpon
dltwblkbuy,bgsudwbukbUbqlo’ybgpirbpbjl.mswblkbnl.bmtwyynb’.oi,”bpoqbrw
sllfwqbkutiybpybDutpoqpbpoqbyrwobpybFtpifua

“Ole,”billyrwqbGs.gwt,b“swy’ibpssbirpfwbrpoqibpoqbgwb llqbktuwoqia”

“Tu ry-l,”bjtuwqbMwwgswi,b“yrpy’ibyrwbypsfab uxwb’udbnl.tb’poq,bWiywgpoa
Jldw,bJpts,bg.tnbyrwb’pyjrwyabEwbjpo’ybiyptybuoblobyruibyruo beuyrbol
rpoudliuyuwi,bpoqb’wtwbewbptw,bpoqbyrpy’ibyrpya”

YrwbT.iiupo,bkwwsuo biwj.twbuobruibmliuyulobeuyrbKsltp,bpoqbyrwtwkltwbuo
pbdp opoudl.ibdllq,bwhywoqwqbruibrpoqbpjtliibyrwbypgswbyleptqbyrw
ImpouptqabKltbpbdldwoybWiywgpobrwiuypywqa

“Jldw,bdpo,birpfw!”b tleswqbYrtljf,b“ltbnl.bjpob lbgpjfbylbnl.tbvlgbpi
pobwhytpbdpo,bgsudw,bpoqbew’ssbkuoqbildwlowbwsiwbylbqlbnl.tbeltfbpoq
quxxnbyrwbiep beuyra”

I.qqwosnbyrwbqptfbjl.oywopojwblkbyrwbImpouptqbepibsu rywqbgnbpbmswpipoy
iduswabRwbwhywoqwqbruibrpoqbz.ujfsnbpoqbjspimwqbFtpifu’iab“Klt uxwbdw,”
rwbipuq,b“Ubpdbrly-ywdmwtwq,bg.ybUbdwpobolyruo abDuiibRpefwibuibtu ry,
ewbd.iybpssbgwbktuwoqi,bpoqbrwtw’ibdnbrpoqblobuy,bFtpifu,bpibkptbpibUbpd
jlojwtowqa”

“ llq,”bipuqbFtpifu,b“poqbUbpdbilttnbukbUblkkwoqwqbnl.;”bg.ybrwbklt ly
yrpybyrwblyrwtbepibpobpjylt,bpoqbukbrwbjl.sqbrpxwbiwwobuoylbyrwbqwmyri
lkbyrpybqptfbil.sbrwbel.sqbrpxwbir.qqwtwqa

“.oqbole,bqlybxwbptwbpssb llqbktuwoqi,”bipuqbGs.gwt,bt.gguo bruibrpoqi
yl wyrwtb.ojy.l.isn,b“xnbolybpttpo wbkltbxrwobxwbirpssbjlddwojwbiyptyuo 
ylbkuouirb.mbwxwtny’uo i?bDuiibKsltp,birwb uxwibdwbyrwbdpmb.oqbqwt
qutwjyuloib.oqbewbiyptybjlddwojuo buddwqupywsna”

“Slpobdwbpbmwojus,bJpts,”bipuqbyrwb uts,bpoqberwobyrwbdpobrpqbrpoqwqbrwt
lowbirwbiwptjrwqbl.ybpbimlyb.mlobyrwbdpmbildwbquiypojwbuoylbyrwbuoywtult
ktldbH,berwtwbirwbqtwebpbyuonbjutjswab“YruibuibL,”birwbipuqab“Erwobew
pssbtwpjrbrwtwbnl.birpssbrpxwbyrwbkuopsbqutwjyuloibpoqbolybgwkltwa”

Gs.gwtbyrtweb.mbruibrpoqiab“_Lu!_bDuiibKsltp,bxrpybnl.by’uof,bxwbimwoq
yelby’l.ipoqbml.oqibylbg.nbpbmu buobpbmlfw?b_Lu!bLu!_bnl.bxl.sqo’ybpif
.ibylbqlbqly?bXwbd.iybiwwbwxwtny’uo ,bxwbd.iybfolebwxwtny’uo ,bgwkltwbxw
imwoqbx.obkptyruo a”

“Nwi,bpoqb’wtwbewbptw,bpoqbyrpy’ibyrpy!”btlptwqbVlrobMwwgswi,biytufuo 
yrwbypgswbeuyrbruibkuiya

Yrwb utsbtliwbswui.twsnbktldbrwtbiwpyab“Lr,bxwtnbewss,”birwbipuqbeuyrbp
irt. ab“Ukbnl.bkwwsbyrpybepnbpgl.ybuybewbdu rybpibewssbjpssbuybpssblkka”

“Lr,bxpuy,bxpuy,bDuiibKsltp,”bjtuwqbGs.gwt,btuiuo br.ttuwqsnab“Qlo’ybgw
l juywqabG.ybjpo’ybnl.biwwbxwtwbxwbptw?bYelby’l.ipoqbml.oqibuibpbslyblk
dlown,bpoqbxwbptwb llqbg.iuowiibdwoabXwbirl.sqo’ybgwbimwoquo buybpss
xuy’l.yb wyyuo boly’uo ibkltbuya”

“Ubpdbolybpifuo bnl.bylbimwoqbuybpoqb wybolyruo bkltbuy,”btwmsuwqbyrw
 uts,byptysn;b“g.ybukbponlowbrpib lybylbyt.iybponlowbwsiwbuobyrui
l.ykuy,buybuibnl.berlbptwb luo bylbyt.iybdwabUkbUb uxwbnl.bpssbyrw
uokltdpyulobUbrpxw,byrwtwbuibolyruo buobyrwbeltsqbyrpybjl.sqbmtwxwoybnl.
ktldb luo bprwpqbpoqbswpxuo bdwbl.ybuobyrwbjlsq,bpoqbUbqlo’ybuoywoqbyrpy
yrpybirpssbrpmmwoa”

“G.ybewbptwbolyb lolkki,bDuiibKsltp,”buoiuiywqbyrwbVweab“Xwbxl.sqboly
y’uofbkltbx.obduo.ywblkbjrwpyuo bnl.a”

“Nl.’twbolybpo wsi,bwuyrwt,bGs.gwt,bponblkbnl.,”btwyltywqbyrwb utsab“Uk
nl.bepoybylb lbprwpqbeuyrbyruibnl.’xwb lybylbqlbuybuobdnbepn,bpoqbUbpd
 luo bylbgwbyrwtwbpybyrwbkuouirbylbiwwbyrpybUb wyberpybuibjlduo bylbdwa
Nl.’xwbypfwobdnbeltqbkltbuy,b.mbylbyrwbmtwiwoybyudw,byrpybUbrpqbyrw
qlmw,bpoqbolebnl.’xwb lybylbypfwbuybyrwbtwiyblkbyrwbepnbltbpssbgwyibptw
lkkabErpyb llqbel.sqbuybqlbdwbylb lblxwtbuoylbpbgpssnbv.o swbpoqbi.kkwt
pssbyrwbrptqirumibyrpybewbptwbgl.oqbylbi.kkwt,bqtp  uo bnl.bpslo beuyr
dw,bukbUbewtwbolyb luo bylbgwbpgswbylbqwsuxwtbyrwb llqiberwobUb ly
yrwtw?bPoqbUbpdbolybi.jrbpbilkynbpibylbyruofbUbjl.sqb wybpepnbeuyrbuy
euyrbpbg.ojrblkbgpoquyibsufwbnl.bukbUbytuwqbylbm.ybponyruo blkbyrpybfuoq
lxwtblobnl.abPoqbpibslo bpibUbqlbmspnbiytpu rybUbkwwsbmwtkwjysnbipkw,
kltbUbfolebyrpybwuyrwtbWiywgpobltbJptsbeussbsllfbpkywtbdw,bpoqbUbqlo’y
folebg.yberpybyrwbtwiyblkbnl.bel.sq,byllabUibuybpb lbltbuio’ybuy?”

“Xwss,bVlro,bxlybqlbnl.b.oqbQujfby’uof?”bpifwqbGs.gwt,bpqqtwiiuo byrw
yelbwh-mtucw-ku rywtiab“Jpts,bUbfolebrwbxussby’uofbx’rpywxwtbKsltp
y’uofiabRwn?bX’py?”

“Gsudw,”bipuqbYrtljf,b“Ubowxwtbepibd.jrblkbpbrpoqbpybyt.iyuo bolglqn
.oswiibUbrpqbyl,bg.ybuybsllfibolebpibyrl. rbewbrpqbylbyt.iybKsltpa”

“Ipdwb’wtw,”bipuqbVlrobMwwgswiab“Ukbnl.bytnbponbk.oonbeltf,bKsltp—”bRw
dpqwbpbiu oukujpoybdlxwdwoybeuyrbruibkuo wtbpjtliibruibyrtlpya

“Ub.oqwtiypoq,bVlro,”bipuqbyrwb utsbeuyrbpbidusw,b“poqbUbfolebyrpybnl.
el.sqbqlbuybpibz.ujfsnbkltbyelbml.oqibpibnl.bel.sqbkltbyelbyrl.ipoqabG.y
nl.bptwbpssbp twwq,byrwo,bylbjpttnblobpjjltquo bylbdnbmspoi?bNl.byll,
Jpts?”

YrwbT.iiupobolqqwqab“Erpywxwtbyrwbtwiybipnb lwibeuyrbdw,”brwbtwdptfwqa

Poqbilbyrwb woyswbsuyyswbjlywtuwbquij.iiwqbyrwutbmspoibuobilbkptbpibyrwn
jl.sq—wpjrbduo.ywiybqwypusbyrpybel.sqbgwbowjwiiptnbylbmspjwbyrwdbpssbpy
yrwbLberujrbyrwb utsbrpqbqtpeob.mlobyrwbdpma




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbUX
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbERPYbYRWbKLLYMTUOYIbYLSQ


ERWObVpq-gps-vp,byrwb lsqwobsulo,bepibyelbnwptiblsq,brwbepibpi
dp oukujwoybpbimwjudwoblkbruibfuoqbpibyrwb twniylfwibrpqbwxwtbsllfwq
.mloabUobiucwbrwbepibkptbpglxwbyrwbpxwtp wblkbyrpybpyypuowqbgnbdpy.tw
dpswi;buobjlokltdpyulobrwbepibi.mwtg,bruibolgswbrwpqbpoqbruib twpybgspjf
dpowb uxuo brudbyrwbpmmwptpojwblkbpbk.ss- tleobdpsw,beruswbuo
uoywssu wojwbrwbkptbl.ytpofwqbruibipxp wbgtlyrwtiblkbyrwbkltwiya

Vpq-gps-vpbepibpbowxwt-woquo bil.tjwblkbmtuqwbpoqbqwsu rybylbyrwbpmw-dpo
erlbrpqbytpuowqbrudbilbjptwk.ssn,bpoqbol.tuirwqbrudbj.oouo snbkltbyrw
m.tmliwblkbqwxwslmuo bylbyrwbk.ssbpssbyrwbspywoybmlewtibeuyruobrudabYrw
sulobolbslo wtbiswmybpybyrwbkllyblkbruibdpiywt’ibgwq,bg.ybljj.muwqbp
iytlo bjp wbyrpybYptcpobrpqbrpqbjloiyt.jywqbkltbrudbpybyrwbtwptblkbyrw
g.o psle,bkltberlbfowebgwyywtbyrpobyrwbpmw-dpobyrpybpbsulo,berwtwxwtbrw
dpnbgwbltbrlewxwtbrwbdpnbrpxwbgwwobtpuiwq,buibnwybpbsulo—pbipxp w
kswir-wpywtabKltbyrwbkutiybnwptbrwbrpqbtlpdwqbpybeussbpgl.ybyrwbrl.iw
poqb tl.oqi;bpkywtbyrpybrwbewoybpgtlpqblosnbuobyrwbjldmponblkbYptcpoa
Lkywobyrwbyelbtlpdwqbyrwbmspuobpoqbyrwbv.o swbr.oyuo byl wyrwtabUobpbepn
yrwbsulobepibpsdliybwz.pssnbpibkpdusuptbeuyrbVpowbpoqbFltpf,bpoqbowuyrwt
lkbyrwdbkwptwqbltbduiyt.iywqbrud,bg.ybyleptqbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibquqbrw
irlebyrwb twpywiybpkkwjyuloabYrwbgspjfiblkbYptcpo’ibrl.iwrlsqbrw
ylswtpywq,boltbquqbrwbwxwtblkkwtbylbdlswiybponblkbyrwbqldwiyujbpoudpsi
ltbkles,bpkywtbYptcpobrpqbudmtwiiwqb.mlobrudbuobruibwptsnbj.grllqbyrpy
pmmtlmtupywbm.ouirdwoybklsslewqbuddwqupywsnb.mlobponbmtwqpyltnbwhj.tiulo
uoylbyrwbjlttpsibltbrworl.iwiabYrwbkpjybyrpybrwbepibowxwtbmwtduyywqbyl
gwjldwbtpxwol.isnbr.o tnbepibql.gyswiibyrwbqwjuquo bkpjyltbuo
ipkw .ptquo byrwbsuxwbiyljfblkbyrwbkptda

Yrwbdpobpoqbyrwbgwpiybiwwdwqbylb.oqwtiypoqblowbpolyrwtbmwtkwjysnabUybui
ql.gyk.sbyrpybyrwbsulob.oqwtiyllqbpssbyrpybYptcpobipuqbylbrud,bg.ybgw
yrpybpibuybdpnbyrwbwpiwbeuyrberujrbrwbjldd.oujpywqbruibeuirwibylbyrw
sulobgltqwtwqb.mlobyrwb.ojpoonabYrwblgwquwojwbyrpybpbjldguopyuloblk
iywtoowiibpoqbpkkwjyulobrpqbwsujuywqbktldbyrwbj.gbrpqbgwjldwbspt wsn
rpguybuobyrwb tleobsuloabPybYptcpo’ibjlddpoqbrwbel.sqb lbylb twpy
quiypojwibpoqbgtuo bgpjfbpoywslmwbltbcwgtp,bspnuo bruibfussbpybrui
dpiywt’ibkwwybeuyrl.yblkkwtuo bylbypiywbyrwbkswirbrudiwsk,bpoqbrwbrpq
wxwobtwytuwxwqbsuxuo bpoudpsibeuyrl.ybrptduo byrwdabI.jr,byrwo,bepibyrw
 lsqwobsulobyrpybtlpdwqbyrwbmtudwxpsbkltwiybeuyrbruib lqsufwbdpiywta

Uybepibpybpgl.ybyruibyudwbyrpybyrwtwbjlddwojwqbylbqtukybuobylbyrw
pmw-dpobt.dltiblkbpbmtwqpyltnbgpoqbylbyrwbewiybpoqbil.yrblkbruibwiypyw;
. snbiyltuwiblkbuxltn-tpuquo ,bispxw-t.oouo bpoqbylty.tw,bi.jrbpibrpq
olybquiy.tgwqbyrwbz.uwyblkbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibipxp wbv.o swbiuojwbyrwbqpniblk
IrwufbPdltbGwobFrpyl.t,bpoqbyrwtwbjpdwblyrwtbypswi,byll,byrpybjp.iwq
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibylbm.jfwtbruibgtleibuobm.ccswdwoybpoqbyrl. ry,bpoq
yrwobpbdloyrbwspmiwqbq.tuo berujrbYptcpobrwptqbolbdltwblkbyrwbt.dlti
ktldbyrwbewiya



Yrwbeptbrpqbtwq.jwqbyrwbtwil.tjwiblkbyrwb twniylfwibylbg.ybpbdwp wt
uojldwabYrwnbrpqb uxwobmtpjyujpssnbpssbylbyrwbjp.iwblkbyrwbPssuwi,bpoq
oleberpybsuyyswbrpqbtwdpuowqbylbyrwdbrpqbgwwobpssbg.ybwhrp.iywqbuobyrw
twrpgusuypyuloblkbYptcpo’ibPktujpobwiypywa

“Uybsllfibxwtnbd.jr,bVpow,”brwbipuqbylbruibeukwblowbou ry,b“pibyrl. r
polyrwtbytumbylbLmptbewtwblobyrwbgllfia”

“UbqtwpqbylbyruofblkbuyabUbqlbolybepoybnl.bylb l,”birwbipuqab“Nl.brpxw
jldwbpepnbktldbyrpybpek.sbjuynbyeujw,bg.ybgptwsnbeuyrbnl.tbsukwabYrw
yrutqbyudwbnl.bdpnbolybgwbilbklty.opywabEwbrpxwbwol. r,bVlro,bylbmwtduy
.ibylbsuxwbrwtwbuobjldkltybpoqbuobrpmmuowiiabErnbvwlmptqucwbyrliwbyel
yruo iberujrbptwb twpywtbyrpobpssbewpsyrbuobpolyrwtbpyywdmybylbtpuqbyrw
ytwpi.twbxp.syi?”

“Yrwtwbuibolbqpo wt,bVpow,”brwbpii.twqbrwtab“YrwbspiybyudwbEwtmwtbql  wq
dnbkllyiywmi,bpoqbgwyewwobrudbpoqbyrwbwptyrz.pfwbUbepibowptsnbqlowbklta
G.ybyrwtwbuibolbjrpojwblkbponbi.jrbjldguopyuloblkbjutj.diypojwi
yreptyuo bdwbp puoa”

“Nl.beussbolyb lbpslow,bVlro?”birwbpifwqab“Nl.beussbypfwbFltpfbeuyr
nl.?”

“Ol,”brwbipuq,b“UbirpssbolybypfwbrudabRwbd.iybtwdpuobrwtwbeuyrbnl.,bklt
twpssnbdnbslo bpgiwojwibptwbdltwbqpo wtl.ibylbnl.byrpobylbdwabUbirpss
ypfwbkukynblkbyrwbEpcutu,bpibmltywti,bylbjpttnbyrwb lsq,bpoqbyr.ibew
irl.sqbgwbpgswbylbgtuo bl.ybwol. rbylbspiyb.ibkltbpbslo byudwa”

“PoqbVpq-gps-vp,”birwbpifwq,b“irpssbnl.bypfwbrud?”

“Ol,brwbrpqbgwyywtbtwdpuobrwtw;bFltpfbjpobsllfbpkywtbrudbpoqbypfwbrud
l.ybkltbpbr.oybljjpiulopssnabUbpdb luo bylbytpxwsbsu rybpoqbkpiybpoqbuy
el.sqbgwbyllbrptqbpbytumbkltbrud—suloibqlo’ybjptwbylbdlxwbptl.oqbd.jr
uobyrwbrlybi.o,bpoqbpibewbirpssbytpxwsbdliysnbgnbqpnbUbql.gybuk
Vpq-gps-vpbel.sqbspiybslo a”

PoqbilbuybgwkwssbyrpybYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibiwybl.yblojwbdltwb.mlobyrwbslo 
ytpusbyrpybswpqibylbLmptabGwruoqbrudbdptjrwqbkukynb upoybEpcutu,byrw
mujfblkbyrwbeptsufwbytugwbyrpybrpqbpqlmywqbYptcpobpibuyibJruwkab.mlobyrw
xwtpoqpblkbyrwbg.o pslebiyllqbVpowbpoqbFltpfbepxuo byrwutbpquw.h,berusw
ktldbyrwbtwptblkbyrwbg.usquo byrwtwbjpdwbylbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibwptibyrw
t.dgsuo btlptblkbVpq-gps-vp,byrwb lsqwobsuloabPoqbpibyrwnbdptjrwqbpepn
yrwbxlujwblkbO.dpbpjjldmpouwqbyrwdbl.yb.mlobyrwbtlssuo bmspuo,b.oyusbpy
spiybuybytpuswqblkkbylbolyruo owiibuobyrwbquiypojwa

Ruibimwwqbqwywtduowqbgnbyrpyblkbyrwbislewiyblkbyrwbgspjfi,bYptcpobdpqw
g.ybjldmptpyuxwsnbtpmuqbmtl twiiabLmptbspnbpb llqbyewoyn-kuxwbqpni’bytwf
ktldbyrwbkptdbkltbdwobytpxwsuo bsu ry,bpibewtwbyrwiw,bg.yb.mlobyrw
twy.tobvl.town,bspqwobpibyrwnbel.sqbgwbeuyrbyrwbuo lyiblkb lsq,byrwut
mtl twiibel.sqbgwbislewtabPoqbgwjp.iwblkbyruibyrwbpmw-dpobrpqbpsslyywq
yelbdloyribkltbyrwbxwoy.twabRuibipkptu,bjloiuiyuo blkbiwpilowqbepttulti
losn,bmwtduyywqblkbtwpssnbtpmuqbmtl twiiabYrwnbjpttuwqbolbi.mmsuwi,bklt
yrwnbewtwbpssbr.oywtibpoqbewtwbdlxuo byrtl. rbpbjl.oytnbuoberujrb pdw
epibpg.oqpoy—olbowwqbyrwobkltbg.tqwouo byrwdiwsxwibeuyrbyrwbj.dgwtildw
udmwqudwoypblkberuywbr.oyidwoa

Pbyrltobgldpbpoqbpbkwebswpxwibk.touirwqbyrwutbirwsywtbkltbyrwbou ry,
eruswbimwptibpoqbpttleibpoqbyrwbmlewtiblkbyrwutb twpyberuywbjruwk
uoi.twqbyrpybyrwutbgwssuwibel.sqbowxwtb lbwdmynabEuyrbyrwbmujfwqbdwo
yrpybrwbrpqbgtl. rybeuyrbrudbYptcpobwhmwjywqbylbdpfwbyrwbytumbylbLmptbuo
yewoyn-lowbqpni,byrl. rbrpqbrwbgwwobytpxwsuo bpslowbrwbel.sqbrpxwbdlxwq
yelbltbyrtwwbyudwibpibkpiy,biuojw,berwobYptcpobwswjywqbylbytpxwsbeuyr
imwwq,brwbkputsnbkswebyrtl. rbyrwbv.o sw,bwz.pssnbpybrldwbuobuybgnbqpn
ltbgnbou rybpoqbmtpjyujpssnbyutwswiia

Uybepibpbduq-pkywtollobyrwbyrutqbewwfblkbyrwbdptjrbyrpybYptcpo,btpo uo 
kptbprwpqblkbruibgspjfibuobiwptjrblkb pdw,bjpdwbi.qqwosnb.mlobyrw
jptjpiiblkbGptp,byrwbqwwt,bpbkwpyrwtwqbpttlebmtlyt.quo bktldbuyibkspofa
UybepibwxuqwoybyrpybGptpbrpqbgwwobel.oqwqbpybildwbsuyyswbquiypojwbktld
erwtwbuybrpqbspuobqleobylbquw,bkltbyrwbsljpyuloblkbyrwbduiiuswbuoqujpywq
yrpybyrwbel.oqbjl.sqbolybrpxwbjp.iwqbuddwqupywbqwpyrabG.yberpy
mptyuj.sptsnbjp. rybyrwbpyywoyuloblkbyrwbpmw-dpo,bwxwobgwkltwbrwbrpq
jldwbjsliwbwol. rbylbdpfwbpbduo.ywbwhpduopyulo,bepibyrwbqwiu oblkbyrw
pttle,bpoqbuddwqupywsnbrwbeuyrqtwebuybktldbyrwbglqnblkbyrwbqwwtbrwbfowe
uybkltberpybuybepi,bpoqbepibkusswqbeuyrbi.jrbeloqwtdwoybpibdu rybjldwbyl
nl.bltbylbdwbewtwbewbylbiwwbpbopyuxwbIepcubrwpqqtwiib.mlobGtlpqepnblt
yrwbIytpoq,bkltbyrwbpttlebepibmtwjuiwsnbi.jrbpiblowbdpnbm.tjrpiwbuobdliy
ponbimltyuo - llqibrl.iwbuobponbspt wbjuynblkbyrwbeltsq—i.jrbpobpttle
pibuibilsqbpoqb.iwqbkltbptjrwtnbmtpjyujwbuobyrwbmptfibpoqbi.g.tgia
Olyruo bjl.sqbrpxwbgwwobdltwbuojlo t.l.ibyrpobyruibiussnbylnbuobyrw
rwptyblkbipxp wbPktujp,bpoqbnwybyrpybuybrpqbqlowbuyibeltfbwkkwjyuxwsn
epibwxuqwoybgnbyrwbqwpqbglqnblkbGptp,byrl. rbyrwbpmw-dpob .wiiwqbyrpy
yrwbirpkybrpqbgwwobimwqbgnbolbmtpjyujwq,bipxp wbrpoqa

Yptcpo’ibj.tuliuynbepibptl.iwqbpoqbpsilbruibuorwtwoybv.o swbjp.yuloabLow
d.iybfolebruibv.o swbewssbylbi.txuxwbslo byrwbv.o sw,bpoqbukblowbel.sq
folebuybewssbrwbd.iybswybolb.o.i.psbljj.ttwojwbltbjutj.diypojwb l
.owhmspuowqabPoqbilbuybepibyrpybYptcpobiwybl.yb.mlobyrwbgpjfbytpjfblk
Gptpbkltbyrwbm.tmliwblkbpijwtypuouo ,bukbmliiugsw,byrwbopy.twblkbGptp’i
ispnwtabYrwbgsllqnbimlltbepibwpiusnbklsslewqbpoqbyrwbpmw-dpobeloqwtwq
ernbuybepibyrpybyrwbr.oywtbrpqbolybytpjfwqbpoqblxwtypfwobruibz.pttn,
erujrbrpqbwxuqwoysnbgwwobqwpqbiuojwbyrwbmtwxul.ibqpnabRwbkl.oqbyrpybGptp
rpqbytpxwswqbkpt,bpoqbyrwbi.obepibpstwpqnbslebuobyrwbewiybgwkltwbYptcpo
jpdwb.mlobyrwbkutiybuoqujpyuloiblkbyrwbispnwtblkbyrwbpoudpsabYrwiwbewtw
uobyrwbopy.twblkbkllymtuoyibyrpybkusswqbrudbeuyrbz.uywbpibd.jrbi.tmtuiw
pibrpqbyrwbpttleabRwbwhpduowqbyrwdbjptwk.ssn,bpoq,biyllmuo bsle,bwxwo
ioukkwqbpybyrwdbeuyrbruibiwoiuyuxwboliytusiabUdmtlgpgsw,bopnbudmliiugsw
yrl. rbuybiwwdwq,byrwbopfwqbkllymtuoyibewtwbyrliwblkb_pberuywbdpo_—p
spt wbdpo,bmtlgpgsnbpibspt wbpibYptcpobrudiwskabPibyrwbkliywt-iloblk
Fpspbiyllqb pcuo b.mlobyrwbimlltblkbyrwbdniywtul.ibiytpo wtbrwbtpobyrw
kuo wtiblkblowbrpoqbyrtl. rbruibyrujf,bgspjfbrputbuobpbjrptpjywtuiyuj
 wiy.twbuoqujpyuxwblkbqwwmbm.ccswdwoya

Erpybopfwqberuywbdpobjl.sqbyrwtwbgwbuobYptcpo’ibv.o swberlbiswebYptcpo’i
 pdwbeuyrbyrwbmtwyynbpttleblkbpobptjrwtnbjs.g?bUybepibuojtwqugswbyrpy
yrwtwbirl.sqbgwbi.jrbpblow,bpoqbnwybyrwtwbtwj.ttwqbylbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibduoq
yrwbxp .wbt.dltibyrpybrwbrpqbrwptqbewwfibgwkltwabQwywtduowqbylbilsxwbyrw
dniywtnbrwbiwybl.yboleb.mlobyrwbytpusblkbyrwbiytpo wt—pobwttpyujbytpus
erujrbel.oqbpgl.ybyrtl. rbyrwbv.o sw,bpmmptwoysnbpudswiisn,bmtldmywq,
Yptcpob .wiiwq,bgnbyrwbu oltpojwblkbpobuowhmwtuwojwqbr.oywtabG.ybou ry
kwssbgwkltwbrwbrpqbpttuxwqbpybpbils.yuloblkbyrwbtuqqsw,bpoqbuybepibmuyjr
qptfbpibyrwbpmw-dpoby.towqbruibiywmibyleptqbjpdma

RwbfowebyrpybruibEpcutubel.sqbgwbwhmwjyuo bdwpybpoqbuybepibolybYptcpo’i
uoywoyulobylbquipmmluoybyrwd,byrl. rbrwbyrwobquijlxwtwqbyrpybrwbepiboly
yrwblosnbjptouxltwbr.oyuo byrwbquiytujybyrpybou ryabYrwbjl. ruo b t.oy
lkbpbsulobjsliwbgnbpmmtuiwqbrudblkbuybkutiy,bpoqbyrwo,bktldbyrw
quiypojw,byrwbqwwmbtlptblkbpolyrwtabG.yblkberpybdldwoybepibuybylbyrw
pmw-dpobyrpyblyrwtibr.oywq?bUybel.sqbolybgwbyrwbkutiybyudwbyrpybrwbrpq
muyywqbruibj.oouo ,bruibiytwo yr,bpoqbruibp usuynbp puoiybyrwblyrwt
r.oywtiblkbruibipxp wbeltsq—glyrbdpobpoqbgwpiya

PoqbilbuybepibyrpybYptcpobdpqwbruibfussbpybspiy,biopyjruo buybpsdliy
ktldb.oqwtbyrwboliwblkbpbquipmmluoywqbpoqbuok.tupywqbsulo—pbkpy
poywslmwbyrpybyrwbspyywtbrpqbdptfwqbpibruibleoabYrtleuo bruibfussbylbrui
irl.sqwtbpsdliybuobyrwbmpyrblkbyrwbjrpt uo bO.dp,byrwbpmw-dpobie.o 
su rysnbylbyrwbslewtbywttpjwibpoqbeuyrbpbyp.oyuo bsp. rbkltbyrw
uok.tupywqbjpy,bxpouirwqboluiwswiisnbuoylbyrwbou rya

Rwbkl.oqbyrwbjpdmbpoqbruibr.o tnbEpcutubeuyrl.ybytl.gsw,bpoqbilb twpy
epibyrwutbkpuyrbuobrudbyrpybyrwnbolybkltbpbdldwoybql.gywqbg.ybyrpybrw
el.sqbtwy.tobeuyrbdwpybkltbyrwda

Wptsnbyrwbklssleuo bdltouo bYptcpobiwybl.ybp puobyleptqbLmpt,bpoq
qutwjyuo bruibEpcutubylbjloyuo.wbyrwbdptjrbuobyrwbdliybqutwjybepn,brw
swkybyrwdbyrpybrwbdu rybm.ti.wbk.tyrwtbruibuoxwiyu pyuloiblkbyrw
dniywtul.ibmtwiwojwbuobruibv.o swbyrpybyrwbpttlebpoqbyrwbkllyiywmibrpq
pmmtuiwqbrudblkabJlduo bp puobylbyrwbimlybpyberujrbqptfowiibrpqbkltjwq
rudbylbpgpoqlobruibuoxwiyu pyuloi,brwbyllfb.mbyrwbimlltblkbyrwbiytpo wta
Oltbrpqbrwbklsslewqbuybkptbgwkltwbrwbjpdwb.mlobk.tyrwtbwxuqwojwblkbyrw
mtwiwojwblkbyruibowebpoqbdpsu obmwtilopsuyn—iytwyjrwqbgwkltwbrudbuobyrw
ytpusbepibyrwbglqnblkbpb upoybpmw,blowblkbyrwbytugwblkb twpybpoyrtlmluqi
pdlo berldbYptcpobrpqbgwwobtpuiwqabMtlyt.quo bktldbyrwbrputnbpgqldwoblk
yrwbDpo poubepibpolyrwtblkbyrwbdpjruow-dpqwbpttleiblkbjuxusucpyuloabYrw
pmw-dpo’ibwnwibopttlewqbpoqbpbijlesbqptfwowqbruibgtleabErlbepibyruiberl
qptwqbuoxpqwbruibipjtwqbmtwiwtxwibpoqbisp. rywtbyr.ibt.yrswiisnbYptcpo’i
mwlmsw?

Pbsleb tlesbt.dgswqbuobyrwbyrtlpyblkbyrwbpmw-dpoabIsl. rwqbeuyrbyrw
rpgusudwoyiblkbjuxusucpyulobepibyrwbyruobxwowwtblkbjuxusucpyulobyrpy
Yptcpobeltwbpdlo beruywbdwoabOlbWo suirbsltqbepibyruiberlbsllfwqb.mlo
yrwbjltmiwblkbruibrputnbjl.iuo,bg.ybpolyrwtbv.o swbgwpiybuoberliwbgtwpiy
tp wqbyrwb.oz.wojrpgswbkutwblkbi.imujulobpoqbrpytwqbkltbyrwbdpo-yruo 
yrpybuibyrwbrwtuyp wblkbyrwbv.o sw-gtwqabPbgwpiyblkbmtwnbxuwewqbyrw
gsllqnbeltfblkbt.yrswiibdpoabOltbepibyrwtwbuobyrwbjloijul.iowiiblk
Yptcpobponbpjfoleswq dwoyblkbruibgsllqbtwspyuloirumbylbyrwbfusswta

Twpsucuo byrpybyrwbytpusbrpqbgwwobdpqwb.mlobyrwbiwjloqbqpnbgwkltw,
Yptcpobrpiywowqblobuobm.ti.uyblkbyrwbispnwtabYrwtwbepibolbql.gybuobrui
duoqbg.ybyrpybmspuobd.tqwtbrpqbgwwobjldduyywq,bkltbrwbepibi.kkujuwoysn
kpdusuptbeuyrbyrwbytpuyiblkbyrwbDpo poubylbfolebyrpybolowblkbyrwdbel.sq
mtlxlfwbpiip.syb.oswiibqtuxwobylbuya

Yptcpobepibytpxwsuo b.mbeuoq,bpoqbildwbrpsk-rl.tbpkywtbrwbrpqbquijlxwtwq
yrwbglqnblkbyrwbpmwbruibfwwoboliytusibjp. rybyrwbijwoybimlltblkblyrwti
lkbuyibfuoqabFoleuo byrwbyuduquynblkbyrwiwbkuwtjwbqwoucwoiblkbyrwbv.o sw
rwbdlxwqbklteptqbolebeuyrb twpybeptuowii,bswiy,beptowqblkbruibpmmtlpjr,
yrwnbypfwbksu rybgwkltwbyrwnbewtwbpeptwblkbruibuqwoyuynabRwbquqbolybiww
yrwdblkywo,bnwybrwbfowebyrpybyrwtwbewtwbpsepnibyrliwbpdlo byrwdberl
twjpsswqbrud,bpoqbyrpybyrtl. rbyrwiwbrwbjl.sqbpsepnibwiypgsuirbpdujpgsw
twspyuloibeuyrbyrwbgpspojwblkbyrwbytugwa

Leuo bylbyrwbqwoiwowiiblkbyrwb.oqwt tleyrbYptcpobjrliwbyrwbduqqsw
ywttpjwibkltbruibpqxpojw,bpoqbrwtw,bieuo uo bktwwsnbpoqbieukysnbpdlo 
yrwbswpknbgl. ri,brwbjpdwbmtwiwoysnb.mlobyrwb upoybpoyrtlmluqiabYrwtw
ewtwbpgl.ybyewoynblkbyrwdbuobyrwbgpoq,bpoqbyrwnbewtwbwo p wq,buobp
suyyswbopy.tpsbjswptuo ,buobyrwutbowxwt-woquo biwptjrbkltbjpywtmusspti
poqbgwwyswi,berujrbkltdwqbudmltypoybuywdibuobyrwbquwyblkbyrwbDpo poua

Pbkpuoybiduswblxwtimtwpqbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibkpjwbpibrwbmp.iwqb.mlobpb twpy
gtpojr,brudiwskbruqqwobgnbyrwbswpknbklsup wbpgl.ybrud,bpoqbepyjrwqbyrw
suyyswbgpoqbgwslebrudabWxwtnbpjyulo,bwxwtnbdlxwdwoyblkbyrwb twpybpmwi,
twjpsswqbxuxuqsnbylbYptcpo’ibduoqbyrwbslo bnwptiblkbruibjrusqrllq,berwo,
mtlywjywqbgnbyrwbkuwtjwbdlyrwt-slxwblkbFpsp,byrwbirw-pmw,brwbrpqbtpo wq
yrwbv.o swbeuyrbyrwbytugwblkbFwtjrpfabUobyrwbtldmuo bnl.o ,brwbipebp puo
Owwypbpoqbruiblyrwtbjrusqrllqbmspndpywibpoqbuobyrwbpq.syibpssbyrwb twpy,
ipxp wbgt.ywibrwbrpqbkwptwqbuobnl.yrbpoqbjloz.wtwqbuobdporllqabYrwbepni
lkbdpobdpnbjrpo wbg.ybyrwbepniblkbyrwbpmwbptwbyrwbipdw,bnwiywtqpn,bylqpn
poqbkltwxwta

Rwbepyjrwqbyrwdbuobiuswojwbkltbildwbduo.ywiabRleb spqbyrwnbel.sqbgwbyl
iwwbrudberwobyrwnbquijlxwtwqbruibuqwoyuyn!bKltbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibepi
foleobyrwbswo yrbpoqbyrwbgtwpqyrblkbyrwb twpybv.o swbpibyrwbktuwoqbpoq
mtlywjyltblkbyrwbDpo pouabPybkutiybyrwnbel.sqb tlesbpybrudbpoqbyrtwpywo
rud,bkltbyrwnbel.sqbolybqwmwoqbilswsnblobwuyrwtbyrwutbwnwibltbyrwutbwpti
kltbjlokutdpyuloblkbruibuqwoyuynabOlyb.oyusbrwbrpqbwoywtwqbyrwbjswptuo ,
poqbgtuiysuo bg.ssibeuyrbgptwqbku ryuo bkpo ibrpqbjutjswqbrudbiyukksn
.oyusbyrwnbrpqbjldwbjsliwbwol. rbkltbyrwutboliytusibylbxwtuknbyrw
wxuqwojwblkbyrwutbwnwibpoqbwpti,bel.sqbyrwnbkuopssnbpjjwmybrudabYrwo
ql.gyswiibyrwtwbel.sqbgwb twpybwhjuywdwoybkltbpbkwebduo.ywi,b.oyus,
klssleuo byrwbuoiyuojyiblkbyrwbpmwbduoq,byrwutbpyywoyulobepibewpowqbktld
rudbgnbpbgsleuo bswpk,bpbjpywtmusspt,bltbpbgutq’ibw  ,bpoqbyrwobyrwn
el.sqbdlxwbpgl.ybyrwutbg.iuowii,bypfuo bolbk.tyrwtbolyujwblkbrudbdltw
yrpoblkbponblyrwtbdwdgwtblkbyrwbytugwabG.ybyruibel.sqbolybjldwb.oyus
pkywtbwpjrbuoquxuq.psbrpqbidwsswqblkbrud,bpoqbmwtrpmi,bmpewqbruibkswir
euyrbjpssl.iwqbrpoqia

OlebuybepibyrpybYptcpobdpqwbpbktuwoqsnbil.oqblkb twwyuo ,bpoqbpibyrw
pmwibsllfwqb.mbiywmmwqbktldbruibjlojwpsdwoybuoylbmspuobxuweblkbyrwdab“U
pdbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”brwbipuq,b“du rynbku rywt,bktuwoqblkbyrwbDpo poua
Yptcpobjldwibuobktuwoqirumbylbruibmwlmsw,”bpoqbeuyrbyrwiwbeltqibrw
qtlmmwqbsu rysnbylbyrwbs.irb tpiiblkbyrwbjswptuo a

Uoiypoysnbmpoqwdlou.dbtwu owqabIjtwpduo beptouo i,byrwbirwibtpjwqbeuyr
yrwbnl.o bkltbyrwblmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrwbjswptuo ,beruswbyrwbg.ssi,
gtuiysuo bpoqb tlesuo ,bkpjwqbyrwbuoyt.qwta

“Jldw,”bjtuwqbYptcpo,b“qlbnl.bolybfolebdw?bUbpdbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,
ktuwoqblkbyrwbDpo pou,biloblkbFpsp,bpoqbfuo blkbyrwbytugwblkbFwtjrpfa”

“Ewbfolebnl.,”b tleswqblowblkbyrwblsqbg.ssi;b“nwiywtqpnbewbipebnl.berwo
nl.bfusswqb lg.ab lbpepnbltbewbirpssbfussbnl.a”

“Ubquqbolybfussb lg.,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Ubkl.oqbruibqwpqbglqn
nwiywtqpnbpoqbUbepibklssleuo byrwbimlltblkbruibispnwt,berwobUbjpdwb.mlo
nl.a”

“Ewbipebnl.,”btwmwpywqbyrwblsqbg.ss;b“ lbpepnbltbewbirpssbfussbnl.abNl.
ptwbolbslo wtbyrwbktuwoqblkbyrwbDpo poua”

Yrwbpmw-dpobiyllqbeuyrbgtleibjloytpjywqbuobyrl. ryabUybepibwxuqwoybyrpy
yrwiwbpmwibtwpssnbgwsuwxwqbyrpybyrwnbrpqbiwwobrudbfussbyrwutbkwsslea
Erpybepibyrwbwhmspopyulo?bRlebjl.sqbuybgwbpjjl.oywqbklt?bQuqbyrwbopfwq
kllymtuoyiblkbyrwb twpyberuywbdpoberldbrwbrpqbgwwobklssleuo bdwpobdltw,
yrwo,byrpobrwbrpqb .wiiwq?bYptcpobeloqwtwqabRwbtpuiwqbruibwnwibpoqbp puo
pqqtwiiwqbyrwbg.ssia

“UybepibolybUberlbfusswqb lg.,”brwbuoiuiywqab“Dponblkbnl.brpxwbfoleobdw
pssbnl.tbsuxwiabNl.bfolebyrpyblosnbuobkputbku ry,bpiblowbg.ssbku ryi
polyrwt,brpxwbUbwxwtbfusswqbpbDpo pouabNl.bfolebyrpy,blkbpssbyrwbv.o sw
mwlmsw,byrwbDpo poubptwbdnbgwiybktuwoqi,bpoqbyrpybYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibui
yrwbgwiybktuwoqbyrwbDpo poubrpxwabRle,byrwo,bjl.sqbUbispnblowblkbdnbleo
mwlmsw?”

“Ewblosnbfole,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbg.ss,b“yrpybewbipebnl.bfussb lg.abEuyr
l.tbleobwnwibewbipebnl.bfussbrudab lbpepnbz.ujfsn,byrwtwkltw,bltbew
irpssbfussbnl.abDu rynbku rywtbuibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bg.ybdu ryuwtbwxwo
yrpobrwbptwbpssbyrwb twpybg.ssiblkbMp yrabUbpdbMp yr,bfuo blkbyrwbytugw
lkbMp yrab lbpepnbgwkltwbewbfussbnl.a”

Yptcpobytuwqbylbtwpilobeuyrbyrwdbg.ybyrwnbel.sqbolybsuiywo,bilbjlokuqwoy
ewtwbyrwnbyrpybuybepibrwberlbrpqbispuobyrwutbkwssle,byrwbg.ssb lg.a
Kuopssn,btpyrwtbyrpobjrpojwbpbz.pttwsbuoberujrbildwblkbyrwdbd.iy
uowxuypgsnbgwbfusswq,brwby.towqbilttlek.ssnbpepnabG.ybdltwbyrpobwxwt,
ole,bepibrwbqwywtduowqbylbiwwfbl.ybyrwbispnwtblkb lg.byrpybrwbdu ry
qwdpoqbpobpjjl.oyuo blkblowberlbqptwqbyr.ibuoxpqwbruibsukw-slo bqldpuoa

Yptcpobytpuswqbyrwbimlltb.oyusbuybduo swqbeuyrbyrwbytpjfiblkbdpon
dwo—gptwkllywqbgspjfi,bdliysn,bg.ybpdlo byrwdbyrwbkllymtuoyiblkbgllywq
eruywbdwo,bpoqblojwbrwbipebyrwbkllymtuoyiblkbpbeldpobltbpbjrusq,berujr,
rwbjl.sqbolybywssabYrwbytpusbswqbpmmptwoysnbyleptqbyrwbtljfnbrussiberujr
mtlywjywqbyrwbgpttwobxpsswnblkbLmpta

Klt wyk.sboleblkbruibltu uopsbduiiulobpoqbudg.wqblosnbeuyrbpbipxp w
qwiutwbylbetwiybktldbyrwbuoywtslmwtibpbk.ssbpjjl.oyuo bkltbyrwut
mtwiwojwbuobyrwbv.o sw,bpoqbylbdwywbl.ybylbyrwbispnwtblkb lg.bruibv.iy
qwiwtyi,bYptcpobklt wqbprwpqb.mlobyrwbolebgtlpqbpoqbewss-dptfwqbytpusblk
yrwbjloiuqwtpgswbmptynberujrbjl.sqbolybolebgwbd.jrbdltwbyrpobp
rpsk-qpn’ibdptjrbprwpqblkbrud,berujrbdwpoybyrpybyrwnbewtwbql.gyswiibole
pstwpqnb.mlobyrwbtudblkbyrwbxpsswnblkbLmpt,bukbyruibepibyrwutb.syudpyw
qwiyuopyuloabPoqberpyblyrwtbyrwnbjl.sqbrpxwbuobxuwebYptcpobjl.sqboly
udp uowa

RwbrpqbpsepnibfwmybjsliwsnbylbrudiwskbyrwbsljpyuloblkbLmptabUobilbkptbpi
rwbfowebolberuywbmwtiloblyrwtbyrpobVpow,bpoqbyrwutbilo,bFltpf,bfoweblk
yrwbsljpyuloblkbyrwbklt lyywobjuynblkbyrwbpojuwoybPyspoyupoiabNwyberpy
wsiwbjl.sqbrpxwbqtpeobyrwiwberuywbdwo,beuyrbilbspt wbpbmptyn,buoylbyrw
ipxp w,b.owhmsltwqbeusqwtowiiberujrbrwddwqbLmptb.mlobpssbiuqwi?

I.jrbewtwbyrwbyrl. ryibyrpybljj.muwqbYptcpo’ibduoqbpibrwbklsslewq
ieukysnbyrwbytpusbyrpybswqbyleptqbLmptabQptfowiibkwss,bg.ybilbktwirbepi
yrwbimlltbyrpybyrwbpmw-dpobjl.sqbklsslebuybgnbijwoybwxwoberwobrwbjl.sq
olybiwwbyrwbudmtuoyib.mlobyrwb tl.oq,bpoqbmtwiwoysn,buobyrwbquiypojw,brw
ipebyrwbsu ryblkbpbjpdmbprwpqblkbruda




[Uss.iytpyulo:bGwkltwbrudbepibyrwbglqnblkbpb upoybpoyrtlmluq]




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbX
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbKPYPSbQTLMI


PYbrldw,byrwbsukwbuobyrwbg.o pslebpoqbpybyrwbkptdbklsslewqbuyib.i.ps
tl.yuowbpibuybrpqbgwkltwbyrwbqwmpty.twblkbYptcpoabFltpf,bildwyudwiblo
kllybpoqbildwyudwiblobrltiwgpjf,bklsslewqbyrwbpjyuxuyuwiblkbyrwbkptd
rpoqibpoqbyrwbrwtqwti,bildwyudwibpslow,bg.ybdltwblkywobuobjldmponbeuyr
yrwberuywbkltwdpo,bVwtxui,bpoqblkywo,bwimwjupssnberwobyrwnbtlqw,bVpow
pjjldmpouwqbyrwda

Yrwb lsqwobsulobFltpfbwhwtjuiwqb.mlobpbswpir,biuojwbrwbepibolybpybpss
jlokuqwoyblkbruibmlewtiblkbjloytlsblxwtbyrwbgwpiy,bpoqbkwptwqbswiy,buo
yrwbpgiwojwblkbruibdpiywt,bVpq-gps-vpbdu rybypfwbylbyrwbkltwiybpoq
twxwtybylbruibopy.tpsbipxp wbiypywabI.jrbpbsulo,bpgtlpqbuobyrwbv.o sw,
el.sqbgwbpbquiyuojybdwopjwbylbr.dpobsukw,bkltbVpq-gps-vp,btwptwqbpdlo 
dwo,bspjfwqbyrpybopy.tpsbyuduquynblkbdwobyrpybuibilbdptfwqbpbytpuyblk
pssbeusqbgwpiyiabYtpuowqbpibrwbrpqbgwwobylbdpfwbruibfussbpybyrwbyrtlpy
lkbpbr.dpobwkku n,buybtwz.utwqbolbjloiuqwtpgswbmlewtiblkbudp uopyulo
.mlobyrwbmptyblkbFltpfbylbxui.psucwberpybdu rybljj.tbirl.sqbyrwb lsqwo
sulo,bslliwqbktldbpssbtwiytpuoy,bgwbyrtleob.mlobruibleobtwil.tjwibuobyrw
i.ttl.oquo bv.o swa

Uybepibq.tuo byrwbkutiybewwfblkbYptcpo’ibpgiwojwbyrpybpbt.oowtbktld
Oputlgubgtl. rybpbjpgswbdwiip wbylbSpqnb twniylfw,bpool.ojuo byrw
iwtul.ibussowiiblkbrwtbkpyrwtbuobSloqloabDlyrwtbpoqbilobquij.iiwqbyrw
iuy.pyuloabUybel.sqbgwbkuxwbltbiuhbewwfibgwkltwbYptcpobjl.sqbtwy.to,
wxwobukbyrwnbiwoybpbt.oowtbpkywtbrud,bpoq,bewtwbVpowbylbpepuybrud,byrwtw
el.sqbgwbsuyyswbsufwsurllqblkbrwtbtwpjruo brwtbkpyrwtbuobyudwabWxwo
irl.sqbirwbqwmptybpyblojw,byrwtwbiwwdwqblosnbpbkpuoybrlmwbyrpybirwbel.sq
pttuxwbwptsnbwol. rbylbiwwbrudbpsuxwabUybepibqwjuqwq,byrwtwkltw,byrpy
irwbirl.sqbiwybl.ybuddwqupywsn,bFltpfbpjjldmponuo brwtbpibkptbpi
Oputlgu,bpoqbyrwobtwy.touo bylbyrwbtpojrbpoqbtwi.duo buyib wowtps
i.mwtxuiulob.oyusbruibkpyrwt’ibtwy.toa

Uybuibpbslo bytwfbktldbyrwb twniylfwbwiypywbylbOputlgu,bpoqbFltpfbrpq
olybnwybtwy.towqberwo,bpgl.ybyrtwwbewwfibpkywtbYptcpo’ibqwmpty.tw,bp
gspjf,berliwbq.ynbuybepibylbkwwqbpoqbjptwbkltbVpq-gps-vp,bjptwswiisn
swkybyrwbqlltblkbyrwbjp wb.okpiywowqberuswbrwbepibjswpouo buyabYrw
 lsqwobsulobmpjwqbgpjfbpoqbkltyrberuswbyrwbgspjfbeuwsqwqbruibgtlld
euyruobyrwbjp wabYrwnbewtwblsqbktuwoqi,bpoqbyrwbEpcutubkwsybolbkwptblk
yrwb twpybsulo,beuyrbyrwbtwi.sybyrpybruibgpjfbepibpiblkywoby.towqbylbrud
pibolyabYrwbgspjfbepibeltfuo buobyrwbkptbjltowtblkbyrwbjp wberwo
Vpq-gps-vpbmp.iwqbpbdldwoybpybyrwbqlltbpybyrwblmmliuywbwoqabYrwbgwpiy
ipebyrpybyrwb pywbr.o bisu rysnbpvptb.mlobuyibruo wiabIuswoysnbrwbtpuiwq
pb twpybmpqqwqbmpebpoqbuoiwtywqbuybuobyrwblmwouo —pbisu rybm.ssbpoqbyrw
 pywbie.o buoabUoiypoysnbyrwb lsqwobsulobuoiwtywqbruibiol.ybuobyrw
euqwowqbpmwty.tw,bpoqbpibrwbie.o byrwbgpttuwtbpiuqwbyrwbrlttukuwqbgspjf
sllfwqb.mbylbiwwbruibjrpt wbqtlmbilkysnbylbyrwb tl.oqbl.yiuqwa

“Iylm,bVpq-gps-vp!bIylm!”bijtwpdwqbyrwbktu rywowqbgspjf,bswpmuo bpkywt
rudabG.ybyrwb lsqwobsuloblosnbuojtwpiwqbruibmpjw,bpoqbswpmuo byrwbkwojw,
slmwqblkkbuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbkltwiya

Yrwbgspjfbm.ti.wqbrudbeuyrbgtpoquiruo bgtlld,bwduyyuo bsl.qbnwssibyrpy
gtl. rybyrwbuodpywiblkbyrwbEpcutubr.yibuoylbyrwblmwo,berwtwbyrwnbvluowq
yrwutbkwsslebuobm.ti.uyblkbyrwbsuloabPjtliibyrwbtlssuo bmspuoibyrwn
klsslewqbrud,bg.ybpibewssbrpxwbil. rybylbioptwbyrwbws.iuxw
euss-l’-yrw-euimbpibyruibieukybpoqbeptnbk. uyuxw,berlbrwwqwqbowuyrwt
yrwutbgspoquirdwoyiboltbyrwutbyrtwpyiabPoqbilbuybepibyrpybyrwnbipebyrw
 lsqwobsulobquipmmwptbuoylbyrwbmtudwxpsbkltwiybpoq,byrl. rbyrwnbiwptjrwq
qusu woysnb.oyusbpsdliybqptf,byrwnbewtwbkltjwqbpybswo yrbylb uxwb.m
yrwutbz.wiybpoqbtwy.tobjtwiykpsswobylbyrwbkptda

“Pr,”bjtuwqbyrwb.orpmmnbgspjf,berlbrpqbgwwobtwimloiugswbkltbyrwbwijpmw
lkbVpq-gps-vp,b“erpybeussbyrwbGu bGepopbipnbylbdw,berpybeussbrwbqlbylbdw
erwobrwbkuoqibyrpybUbrpxwbmwtduyywqbyrwb lsqwobsulobylb wybpepn!”

“Nl.beussbgwbgpouirwqbktldbyrwbg.o pslebkltbpbslo byudw,bFwwepcu,”blsq
D.xutlbpii.twqbrudab“Poqbql.gyswiibnl.beussbgwbiwoybylbyrwb tpcuo 
 tl.oqbkptbylbyrwbwpiybylb .ptqbyrwbrwtqbyrwtw,berwtwbnl.beussbrpxw
mswoynblkbsuloibkltbjldmpon,byrl. rbyrwnbeussbolybgwbpibktuwoqsnbpibepi
Vpq-gps-vpabUybuibolybrpskberpybnl.bqwiwtxw,bpoqbewtwbyrwbrwptyblkbyrw
Gu bGepopbolybkusswqbeuyrbslxwbkltbruibgspjfbjrusqtwo—ewtwbrwbsufw
lyrwtberuywbGepopiblsqbD.xutlbrpibiwwo—nl.bel.sqbgwbspirwqb.oyusbnl.
jl.sqbolybiypoq,bmwtrpmib.oyusbnl.bquwqa”

“Ubpdbpbdpo,”btwmsuwqbFwwepcuab“UbpdbpbepttultbpoqbpbEpcutuabErpywxwt
m.ouirdwoybyrwbGu bGepopbuoksujyibUbeussbpjjwmybpibpbdpobirl.sqa”

Uybepibyrpybipdwbou rybyrpybYptcpobpmmtlpjrwqbyrwbjpdm-kutwiblkbyrw
iytpo wbmptynbrwbrpqbgwwobytpjfuo ab.oiwwobgnbyrwd,brwbrpsywqbuobyrw
klsup wblkbpbytwwbqutwjysnbuobyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwutbjpdm,berujrbepi
i.ttl.oqwqbgnbpobwoltdl.ibyrltobgldp,bpoqbgtussupoysnbsu rywqbgn
o.dwtl.ibkutwiberujrbgspjfibewtwbqusu woysnbkwwquo beuyrbgtpojrwibktld
pobwoltdl.ibmuswblkbkutwellqbyrpybyrwnbrpqbwxuqwoysnb pyrwtwqbwptsuwtbuo
yrwbqpnbkltbyruibm.tmliwabOwptbyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwbjpdmbewtwbiwxwtps
ywoyi,bpoqbgwkltwblow,buobyrwbsu ryblkbpbkutw,bipybkl.tberuywbdwoabYel
lkbyrwdbewtwb twpy,bg.ss-owjfwq,btwq-kpjwqbkwsslei,bpmmptwoysn
Wo suirdwoblkbyrwbslewtbjspii,byrwbyrutqbpmmwptwqbylbgwbpbirlty,bkpy,
 wtdpobVwe,beruswbyrwbkl.tyrbepibpbypss,biswoqwt,brpoqildwbkwssle,beuyr
qptf,bepxnbgtleobrputbpoqbtw .sptbkwpy.twiabRwbpoqbyrwb wtdpobewtwbdliy
dwyuj.sl.isnb ptgwqbkltbJwoytpsbPktujpobytpxwsuo ,bpkywtbyrwbru rsn
uqwpsucwqbiypoqptqblkbdlyulobmujy.twi,buobkpjybwuyrwtblowblkbyrwdbdu ry
rpxwbiywmmwqbqutwjysnbktldbpbijtwwouo blkbyrwbspywiybv.o swbyrtusswta
Yrwbnl.o bdpobepibwxuqwoysnbolyblkbWo suirbqwijwoybpoqbYptcpobdwoypssn
jpypsl wqbrud,bpsdliybuddwqupywsn,bpibpbIspxabIrltysnbpkywtbYptcpo’i
pttuxpsbyruiblowbptliwbpoqbwoywtwqblowblkbyrwbowptgnbywoyi,bktldberujr
Yptcpobuddwqupywsnbrwptqbyrwbil.oqblkbxlujwibuobslebjloxwtipyuloabRw
jl.sqbolybquiyuo .uirbyrwbeltqi,bg.ybyrwbylowiblkblowbiwwdwqbz.uyw
quiyuojysnbkwduouowabYrwbyrtwwbtwdpuouo bpybyrwbkutwbewtwbjpttnuo blobp
qwi.syltnbjloxwtipyulo,berwobi.qqwosnbktldbowptbpybrpoqbgwnloqbyrwbgldp
epss,bpbsulo’ibtlptbgtlfwbyrwbiuswojwblkbyrwbv.o swa

EuyrbpbiyptyswqbirtuwfbyrwbVwebswpmwqbylbruibkwwy,bilbi.qqwosnbyrpybrw
jswptwqbyrwb tl.oqbpb llqbklly,bpoqbyrwo,biywmmuo bgpjfeptq,brwbsliybrui
gpspojw,bytummwqblxwtbruibjpdm-iylls,bpoqbimtpeswqb.mlobruibgpjfa

“Dnb ltq,bPqlsmr!”btlptwqblowblkbruibjldmpouloiab“Ukbnl.bqlbyrpybp puo,
qpdobdwbukbUbqlo’ybgtwpfbnl.tbowjfab’Wtwbewbptw,bpoqbyrpy’ibyrpya”

“Gsudwbukb’wbpuoybeltiw’obpbgsllduo’bsulo,”b tleswqbyrwblyrwta

YrwbVwebjtpeswqbylbruibkwwyab“_Dwuob lyy!_”brwbjtuwq,bruibxlujw
z.pxwtuo ,b“Uby’l. rybi.twbrwbxpibjlduo blxwtbyrwbkwojwabI’wsmbdwbukbU
wxwtb wybl.yblkbquii,bowkkwtbp puo—olybkltbpssbqwtb lsqbuobPktujpbxl.sq
Ub lby’tl. rbxpybUbrpkbgwwoby’tl. rbqwiwbmpiyby’twwbdloy’iab_Lu!bLu!_
xwobUby’uofblkbuy,b_Lu!bLu!_bSuloi,b.oqbswlmptqi,b.oqbtruoljwtliwib.oq
rummlmlypd.iwi,b_Lu!bLu!_”

Ruibjldmpouloibsp. rwqab“QujfbpoqbUbywssibnl.btu rybpslo bktldbyrw
gw uoouo byrpybnl.b’pqo’ybl. rywtbjldwbuoylbyrwbuoywtult,”bipuqblowblk
yrwda

“G.ybkltbxnbUbg.nbpssbqwiwbjsl’i?”bepuswqbyrwb wtdpoab“_Dwuob lyy_,bqui
i.uy,buybiypoqibdwbyxwoynb .uowpi,bxlybUbiypoqbuoabPjr,brpqbUbfole
ildwy’uo ,bx.ob .uowpbxl.sqbrpxwbgl. rybdwbdnberlswbeptqtlgw—yxwoyn
 .uowpibkltbquib.oqbolbx.obylbiwwbuybg.ybou  wtib.oqbsuloia”

“Poqbnl.bsllfbsufwb’wssbuobuy,bgwiuqwi,”bjlddwoywqblowblkbruibktuwoqia

“.oqbsllfbpybuy,buy’ibpssbqutynbpoqbyltoabRlebirl.sqbUbfolebuybUbimlus
quibi.uy?bDuybduowbleobwnwibUbiwwbuybpybqwtbMtuojwiibYwpnywt,brlebqwt
rwtlbimwoqby’twwbdloy’ibuobPktujpbr.oyuo bsuloib.oqbfussuo bjpoougpsi,
.oqbxwobrwbjldwibl.uqbrwbrpio’ybwxwob lybpb twpiwbimlyblobruibmpoyi—rle
irl.sqbUbfolebuybPktujpbepibilbqutynb.oqbk.ssblkbyrltoi?”

UybepibpybyruibmluoybyrpybYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibwswjywqbylbqtlmbz.uwysn
uoylbyrwbjutjswblkbkutwsu rybgwkltwbyrwdabYrwbyelbWo suirdwobswpmwqbyl
yrwutbkwwy,bz.uywbwxuqwoysnbiyptyswq,bpoqbyrwbVweby.towqbpoqbyllfbpbrpsk
iywmbpibyrl. rbuobksu ry,bg.ybuddwqupywsnbruibwnwibtwiywqb.mlobyrw
pmw-dpobrwbrpsywq,bpbsllfblkbtwsuwkbi.mmspoyuo byrpyblkbywttltberujrbrpq
lxwtimtwpqbruibjl.oywopojw,bpibYptcpobrpqbqtlmmwqb.mlobyrwdbpmmptwoysn
ktldbyrwbrwpxwoia

“_Dwuob lyy_,bWiywgpo,”birtusswqbyrwb wtdpo,b“xnbnl.bjldwbgpjfbilbillo,
poqbkltbxnbnl.bjldwbgpjfbsufwbqly,bi.qqwo—qlo’ybnl.bi.mmliwbxwb ly
owtxwi?”

Yptcpobepibpo tn,bpo tnbpybyrwiwbtpebuoyt.qwti,berlbqptwqbwoywtbeuyrl.y
ruibmwtduiiulo,byrwbeuqwbqldpuobuoberujrbrwbfwmybmwpjwbpoqbltqwtabErwo
Yptcpobepibpo tnbyrwtwbkspdwqb.mlobruibkltwrwpqbyrwbijptbyrpybGls pou,
yrwb ltussp,brpqbmspjwqbyrwtwb.mlobyrpybslo - lowbqpnberwobyrwbgln
Yptcpobrpqbdwybyrwb twpybgwpiybuobdltypsbjldgpy,bpoqbkutiybswptowqbyrw
yt.wbxps.wblkbruibkpyrwt’ibr.oyuo bfoukw—yrwbfoukwbyrpybrpqbmspjwqbrud,
yrwbjldmptpyuxwsnbewpfbsuyyswbYptdpo pou,b.mlobpobwxwobkllyuo beuyrbyrw
 twpybgwpiyiblkbyrwbv.o swa

Ruib tpnbwnwibewtwbopttlewq,bruibxlujwbjpdwbjlsqbpoqbswxwsbpibrw
pqqtwiiwqbyrwdab“Erlbptwbnl.,”brwbqwdpoqwq,b“erlbqptwbyr.ibuoxpqwbyrw
jl.oytnblkbyrwbEpcutu,byrwbspoqblkbYptcpo,beuyrl.ybmwtduiiulobktldbyrw
SltqblkbyrwbV.o sw?”

“Erwtwbqlbnl.b wybyrpybiy.kk,bWiywgpo,”bqwdpoqwqblowblkbyrwbWo suirdwo,
“poqbepybuob’wssbptwbnl.bqluo’bgpjfb’wtwbpslowbpoqbilbillo?bErwtwbptw
nl.tbmltywti,berwtwbuibyrwbgsllduo’b lsq?”

Yrwbpmw-dpobwnwqbyrwbimwpfwtbuobiuswojwbkltbpbdldwoyab“UbpdbYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwi,”brwbipuqab“Ubqlbolybfoleberpybnl.bptwbypsfuo bpgl.yabUblosn,
folebyrpybUbjldwbuobiwptjrblkbrudberlbisweb lg.,byrwb twpybpmw;brudberl
iswebGptp,byrwbqwwt,beuyrl.ybdnbmwtduiiuloa”

“Lr,b’wss,”bwhmslqwqbyrwblyrwtbWo suirdpo,b“iylebyrwb .kk,bWiywgpo—uk
nl.’twbytnuo’bkltbylbgwbk.oonbewbqlo’ybiwwbyrwbvlfw,b’wtwbewbptw,bpoq
yrpy’ibyrpya”

Uoiuqwbyrwbywoy,berujrbyrwbkl.tyrberuywbdpobrpqbwoywtwqberuswbYptcpobepi
epyjruo byrwbjpdmbktldbruibruquo bmspjwbuobyrwbytwwbpglxw,bpbeldpo,
wxuqwoysnbi.qqwosnbiyuttwqbgnbywttlt,byl.jrwqbyrwbptdblkbrwtbjldmpoulo
ktpoyujpssn,bpoqbmluoywqbyleptqbyrwbypss,bpsdliybopfwqbku .twblkbyrw
pmw-dpobpibrwbiyllqbtwxwpswqbuobyrwbk.ssbsu ryblkbyrwbgwpiybkutwiab“ lq,
Jpts,”birwberuimwtwq,buobytwdgsuo bylowi,b“sllf!”

“Erpy’ibetlo ,bKsltp?”buoz.utwqbrwtbjldmpouloab“UbiwwblosnbWiywgpoa”

“UybuibolybWiywgpo,”bruiiwqbyrwb utsab“UybuibSltqb twniylfwbrudiwsk—uy
uibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi!”

“Nl.bptwbdpq,bKsltp,”btwmsuwqbyrwbdpo,b“uybjpoolybgwbrwa”

“Uybuibrw,byrl. r,”birwbuoiuiywqab“Qlbnl.bi.mmliwbyrpybUbqlbolybfole
rud?bQuqbUbolybeltfbuobruibyleobrl.iwbkltbnwpti?bQuqbUbolybiwwbrud
owptsnbwxwtnbqpn?bQlbnl.bi.mmliwbyrpybUbqlbolybfolebYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi?
Sllfbpybyrpybtwqbijptbkspduo blobruibkltwrwpq—Ubrpxwbrwptqbyrwbiyltnblk
yrpybijptbpoqbUbrpxwbiwwobuybg.tobijptswyberwobrwbepibptl.iwqbylbpo wta
Uybuibijptswybole,bpoqbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibuibpo tna”

“Ewss,bi.mmliwbuyb_ui_bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,berpybjpobrwbql?”

“Nl.bqlbolybfolebrud,”btwmsuwqbyrwb utsab“Nl.bqlbolyb .wiibyrw
ytwdwoql.ibmlewtbrwbeuwsqibrwtw—yrwbmlewtblkbsukwbpoqbqwpyrblxwtbdpo
poqbgwpiyabUkbrwbfowebl.tbduiiulobrwtwbolyblowblkb.ibel.sqbwxwtbtwpjr
yrwbjlpiybpsuxwabYrwbxwtnbkpjybyrpybrwbuibrwtwbolebdpfwibdwbgwsuwxwbyrpy
rwbdpnbrpxwbquijlxwtwqbl.tbm.tmliw,bpoqbukbrwbrpi,b lqbrwsm
.i—.oswii—.oswii——”

“.oswiiberpy?”bqwdpoqwqbyrwbdpoa

Yrwb utsbepibiuswoybuobyrl. rybkltbpbdldwoyab“Yrwtwbuiblosnblowbepn,”
irwbipuqbkuopssnab“EwbqptwbolybfussbrudabRuibipxp wbgspjfibel.sqbswpto
lkbuy,bpoqbolbmlewtblobwptyrbjl.sqbipxwb.ibyrwoabYrwtwbuibpbepn,byrl. r,
ukbewbpjybz.ujfsna”bIrwby.towqbpoqbiwptjrwqbkltbpbdldwoybuoblowblkbrwt
gp i,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbirwbrpoqwqbyrwbdpobpbidpssbglyysw,bjloypuouo 
suz.uqab“ lbl.ybpoqbypsfbylbrud,”birwbipuq,b“dpfwbktuwoqibeuyrbrudabSuw
ylbrudabYwssbrudbponyruo abMtlduiwbponyruo abG.yb wyblobktuwoqsnbwol. r
ywtdibeuyrbrudbilbyrpybnl.bjpoblkkwtbrudbjlkkwwabRwbqlwibolybqtuofbeuow
ltbponyruo beuyrbpsjlrlsbuobuy,bg.ybUbfolebyrpybrwbsufwibjlkkwwabUbrpxw
lkywobiwtxwqbuybylbrudbuobruibtlldbspywbpybou ryb.mlobruibtwy.tobktld
yrwbyrwpywtbltbpbgpssab wybrudbylbqtuofbjlkkwwbpoqbyrwobnl.beussbfole
erpybylbqlbeuyrbyruia”bPoqbirwbuoqujpywqbyrwbglyyswberujrbyrwbdpobiyuss
rwsqbuobruibrpoqa

Ftpifubolqqwqab“Ub.oqwtiypoq,”brwbipuq,bpoq,by.touo ,bswkybyrwbywoya

Rwbrpqbypfwobg.ybpbiywmberwobyrwb utsbtwjpsswqbrudab“Qlbolybswybrudbiww
dwabQlbolybswybrudb .wiibyrpybUbpdbrwtwbltbyrpybnl.bfolebdwa”

YrwbdpobolqqwqbpoqbswkybrwtabPmmtlpjruo byrwbywoiwbku .twibgwkltwbyrw
kutwbrwb twwywqbYptcpobeuyrbpbmswpipoybiduswbpoqbpbjrwwtnbeltqa

“Ewsjldw,”brwbipuq,b“ewbptwbpsepnib spqbylbiwwbpbiytpo wtbuobl.tbjpdma
IuybqleoabRpoqbyrwb woyswdpobpbiylls,bVlro,”brwbipuqbylbMwwgswia

Yrwbpmw-dpobwnwqbFtpifubpibrwbrpqbwnwqbyrwblyrwtiabYrwtwbepibol
poiewtuo bktuwoqsnbsu rybuobruibwnwibtwimloquo bylbyrwbT.iiupo’i
 twwyuo a

“Ubrpxwbgwwobytnuo bylbkuoqbl.yberpybnl.tbmptynbuibqluo brwtw,”brwbipuq
irptmsnbylbyrwbT.iiupo,b“g.ybyrwnbiyussbuoiuiybyrpybUbpdbildwlowberldbU
pdbolyabYrwnbptwbwuyrwtbkllsibltbfopxwi,bpoqbUbuoywoqbylbkuoqbl.yberujr,
poqbqwpsbeuyrbyrwdbpjjltquo sna”

“Jldw,bjldw,”bjtuwqbFtpifu,billyruo snab“Yrwtwbd.iybgwbildwbduiypfw,bU
pdbi.twabG.ybywssbdw,berlbptwbnl.?”

“UbpdbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Olbr.oywtibwoywtbyrui
mptyblkbPktujpbeuyrl.ybdnbmwtduiiuloabYrpybkpjybuibilbewssbfoleobyrpy
yrwtwbuibolbjrpojwblkbnl.tbrpxuo bmpiiwqbyrwbjlpiybeuyrl.ybrpxuo bgwwo
ilbpqxuiwqabUbiwwfbpobwhmspopyulo,bpoqbyrpybz.ujfsna”

“Pr,bnl.bptwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”bwhjspudwqbFtpifuab“Klty.opywbuoqwwq
ptwbew,bkltbolebdpnbewbgwbiwybiytpu ryb.mlobl.tbepn,bpoqbwijpmwbktldbl.t
ktu ryk.sbquswddpbuibpii.twqabEwbptwbsliy,biut,buowhytujpgsnbsliy,bq.w
ylbyrwbu oltpojwbltbfopxwtnblkbl.tb .uqw,berlbqwiwtywqb.ibiwxwtpsbewwfi
p labI.twsnbewbfoweblkbnl.;berlbqlwibolybfoleblkbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi?bG.y
uybepibolybl.tbuoywoyulobylbjtliibyrwbgl.oqptuwiblkbnl.tbywttuyltnabEw
ewtwbiwptjruo bkptyrwtbil.yrbkltbimwjudwoiblkbyrwbkp.opblkbyrwbquiytujy,
erujrbl.tb llqbktuwoqbpoqbwdmslnwt,brwtw,bDtabPqlsmrbGs.gwt,bui
jlsswjyuo bpyb twpybwhmwoiwbkltbmtwiwoypyulobylbpbd.iw.dbuobruibrldw
juynbuobPdwtujpabOlebUbpdbi.twbyrpybnl.bjpobywssb.iberwtwbewbptwbpoq
qutwjyb.ib.mlobl.tbmtlmwtbjl.tiwa”

Mwwgswi,bYrtljf,bpoqbGs.gwtbiyllqbkpijuopywqbgnbFtpifu’ib sugbsuwi,bg.y
uybepibyrwb wtdpobVweberlbkutiybtliwbylbyrwbljjpiuloabYllbyrujfbewtwbyrw
if.ssiblkbyrwbWo suirbm. ibylb tpimbz.ujfsnbyrwbjswxwtbt.iwblkbyrw
T.iiupoa

“Xnbnwi,”bipuqbyrwblusnbGs.gwt,bt.gguo bruibmpsdibyl wyrwt,b“qlybuiibuy,
n.iybxlybUbxpib luo bylbywssbnl.a”

Yptcpoby.towqbirptmsnb.mlobrudab“Yrwoberpybepibpssbyruibypsfbpgl.y
Wiywgpo?”brwbpifwqab“Epibuybolybgnbyrpybopdwbyrpybyrwiwblyrwtibpqqtwiiwq
dw?”

“Pr,”bjtuwqbGs.gwt,b“VlrobeussbrpkbruibswwyswbvlfwabRwbuiibu oltpoyblk
Pktujp;brwbrpibowkkwtbgwwobrwtwbgwkltwabRwby’l. rybmwtrpmibqpybnl.bxwtw
pbopyuxwabVlrobrwbjpssibpssbqwtbopyuxwibWiywgpo,b.oqbrwbrpib twpybvlfwi
gnbrudiwskbduybqwd,bgwjp.iwbrwbfoleibqwnbjpoolybloqwtiypoqbxlybrwbipnia
RwnbVlro,buiibuybolybil,bxlybuybuiibUbipn?”bG.ybyrwbirtweqbGs.gwtbquq
olybepuybkltbVlrobylbtwmsnab“Nl.biww,”brwbewoyblo,b“xwbptwbsliy,b.oqbnl.
ypfwb.ibl.uqbduybquibv.o sw,bxwbmpnbnl.bpony’uo —nl.bopdwbnl.tbleo
mtujwa”

Yrwbpmw-dpoblosnbrpskbgwsuwxwqbrud,bnwybrwbepibildwerpybdlssukuwqbgn
yrwutbwxuqwoysnbktuwoqsnbuoywoyuloiabMwtrpmibpkywtbpssbyrwnbewtwbywssuo 
rudbpbrpsk-yt.yrbpoqbrpq,btwpssn,bepoqwtwqbuoylbruibywttuyltn
.oeuyyuo snabYrpy,brlewxwt,brwbel.sqbkuoqbl.ybqwkuouywsnbktldbyrwut
opyuxwbjpttuwti,bktldberldbruibleobEpcutubel.sqbewpobyrwbyt.yrabG.ybyrw
dpyywtblkbruibrpxuo bgwwobduiypfwobkltbWiywgpobiyussbmuz.wqbrui
j.tuliuyn,bpsilbrwbepibiyussbqwiutl.iblkbswptouo byrwbuqwoyuynblkbyrw
ispnwtblkb lg.,byrwb twpybpmwa

“Mswpiwbiuybqleo,”b.t wqbFtpifuab“Ewbewtwbpgl.ybylbrpxwbjlkkwwbpoqbew
irl.sqbgwbqwsu rywqbylbrpxwbnl.bvluob.iabEwbdwpoybolbetlo buobjlduo 
rwtw,bpoqbUbjpobpii.twbnl.byrpybewbeussb spqsnbpoqbeussuo snbdpfwbk.ss
pdwoqibylbnl.,bltbylberldwxwtbwsiwbewbdpnbrpxwb.ouoywoyulopssnbetlo wqa”

Ylbypfwbjlkkwwbeuyrbyrwiwbdwobel.sqbqlbolbrptdabMwtrpmibrwbrpqbetlo wq
yrwd,bg.ybrlewxwtbyrpybdu rybgwbpbj.mblkbyrwutbjlkkwwbel.sqbmspjwbol
 twpyblgsu pyulob.mlobrudabKsltpbrpqbgwwobtu rybuobrwtbpiiwtyulobyrpybuk
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibrpqbponbewpfowiiberpyilwxwtbuybepibkltbpobljjpiulops
j.mblkbgspjfbjlkkwwbspywbpybou ryabRwbquqbolybpjjwmybyrwbmtlkkwtwq
jpdm-iylls,bg.ybiz.pyywq,bpmw-kpirulo,bgwkltwbyrwd,byrwbksujfwtuo bsu ry
lkbyrwbgwpiybkutwibmspnuo b.mlobruibgtlocwqbruqwbpoqbgtuo uo buoyl
twsuwkbyrwb tpjwk.ssnbjloyl.twqbd.ijswiblkbruib lqsufwbktpdwabOlybpibyrw
d.ijswiblkbyrwbgspjfiduyrbltbyrwbmtlkwiiulopsbiytlo bdpobewtwbyrw
d.ijswiblkbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bg.ybtpyrwtbyrliwblkbDwtj.tnbltbPmlssl,bil
inddwytujpssnbgpspojwqbewtwbyrwutbmtlmltyuloi,bi.  wiyuo blosnbyrwb twpy
iytwo yrbyrpybspnbuobyrwdabYtpuowqbylbimwwqbpoqbp usuynbewtwbyrwnbpi
ewssbpibylbiytwo yr,bpoqbyr.i,bjslyruo bpibyrwnbquqbruib upoybktpdw,
yrwnbudmptywqbylbrudbyrwbpmmwptpojwblkbpbqwdu- lqa

Yrtljf,bMwwgswi,bpoqbGs.gwtbipybepyjruo brudbuobimwssgl.oqbkpijuopyulo,
eruswbFtpifubepsfwqblxwtbylbyrwbjllfbkutwbylbpttpo wbkltbyrwbjlkkwwabYrw
yelbWo suirdwobewtwbpibnwyblosnbrpskbpepfwowqbylbyrwbkpjybyrpybyrwnbrpq
duiypfwobyruibowejldwtbkltbpolyrwt,bpoqbpibuybepi,bMwwgswibiyuss
ijtpyjrwqbruibrwpqbpoqb t.dgswqbylbrudiwskbuobuoptyuj.spywbrpsk-qwoups
lkbFtpifu’ibpii.dmyuloblkbyrwbowebuqwoyuynblkbYptcpoabGs.gwtbepi
uoeptqsnbywttlt-iytujfwoabRuibfwwowtbuoywssu wojwbrpqbz.ujfsnb tpimwq
yrwbyt.yrblkbFtpifu’ibtwjl ouyuloblkbyrwbdpobkltberpybrwbepibtpyrwtbyrpo
kltberpybMwwgswibpoqbYrtljfbyrl. rybrudbylbgw,bpoq,bpibGs.gwtbfowe
olyruo blkbKsltp’ibmspo,brwbepibuobz.uywbpbiypywblkbk.ofbpibrwbytuwqbyl
xui.psucwbyrwbl.yjldwblkbYptcpo’ibquijlxwtnblkbyrwdbpybyrwbxwtn
yrtwirlsqblkbLmptabRwbquqbolybtwpsucw,bpibquqbKsltp,byrpybyrwutbxwtn
suxwibewtwbuobqpo wt—yrpybuybepibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bpbgwpiyblkbyrw
v.o sw,beuyrberldbyrwnbrpqbylbqwps,bpoqbolybVlrobJspnylo,bSltq
 twniylfw,bpobWo suirbmwwtabTpyrwtbepibGs.gwtbjloiuqwtuo byrwbyel
yrl.ipoqbml.oqibyrpybyrwnbiyllqbylbsliwbyrtl. rbyruibqwmsltpgsw
ywtduopyuloblkbyrwutbwhmwquyulo,bkltbrwbepibi.kkujuwoysnbkpdusuptbeuyr
yrwbtwm.ypyuloblkbyrwbpmw-dpobylbfolebyrpybyrwnbel.sqbowxwtbgwbmwtduyywq
ylbypfwbeuyrbyrwdbyrwb lsqbyrpybWiywgpobepibxwtnbsufwsn,bpybyruibdldwoy,
muskwtuo bktldbyrwbxp.syiblkbLmptabTwpssnbGs.gwtbepibpsdliyb.mlobyrw
xwt wblkbywptiberwobFtpifubtwy.towqbeuyrbyrwbjlkkww,berujrbrwbgtl. ry
rudiwska

Ktldbyrwbqptfbirpqleiblkbyrwbywoy’ibuoywtultbKsltpbRpefwibsllfwq
owtxl.isnbl.yb.mlobyrwbijwowbgwkltwbrwtabIrwbepibywttukuwqbpybyrw
mliiugusuynblkbquijlxwtnbgnbrwtbkltdwtbwdmslnwt,bkltbirwbrpqbgwwobpbdpuq
uobyrwb twniylfwi’bSloqlobyleobrl.iwbpibewssbpibpybyrwbPktujpobg.o psle
poqbfowebyrpybSltqb twniylfwbel.sqbtwjl oucwbrwtbuoiypoysnbirl.sqbrw
jrpojwbylbiwwbrwtabIrwbwoywtypuowqbkltbrud,bole,buobruibv.o swbrp.oyi,bp
kwptbyrpybepibmliiugsnb twpywtbyrpobYptcpo’ibyt.wbjrptpjywtbepttpoywq,
g.ybolowbyrwbswiibtwpsbepibuybylbyrwb utsberliwb .usynbjloijuwojw
jlov.twqbpssbiltyiblkbmliiugswbm.ouirdwoyibkltbrwtbquislnpsynbylbyrliw
erlbrpqbpsepnibytwpywqbrwtbeuyrb.oukltdbfuoqsuowiibpoqbjloiuqwtpyuloa

Jloiypoybqtwpduo blkbyrwbkpg.sl.ibewpsyrblkbyrwbytwpi.twbxp.syiblkbLmpt,
jlojwtouo berujrbirwbrpqbrwptqbilbd.jrbuobqwypusbktldbyrwbjloxwtipyuloi
lkbyrwb twniylfwi,brpqbptl.iwqbeuyruobrwtbopy.tpssnbjtpkynbpoq
.oijt.m.sl.ibduoqbpbqwiutwbkltbmliiwiiulo,bpoqbuobjloiwz.wojwbyrwtwlk
irwbrpqbislesnbxui.psucwqbpbijrwdwberwtwgnbirwbdu rybsllybyrwbytwpi.tw
xp.syiblkbpbi.kkujuwoybo.dgwtblkbyrwb lsqwobuo lyibylbdpfwbrwt
uoqwmwoqwoysnbewpsyrnbkltbsukwabYrwbwoyutwbmspobrpqbgwwobrwtiabIrwbrpq
pybkutiybuoywtwiywqbFtpifu,berlbrpqbuoby.tobwosuiywqbyrwbjlömwtpyuloblk
yrwbyelbWo suirdwobpoqbGs.gwt,bpoqbyrwiwbkl.tbrpqbtpuiwqbyrwbowjwiiptn
dlownbylbqwktpnbyrwbjliyblkbyrwbwhmwquyuloabUybrpqbgwwobKsltpberlbrpq
iwptjrwqbkltbpbynmwblkbdpoberlbdu rybi.jjwiik.ssnbudmwtilopywbYptcpobuo
ruibleobv.o sw,bpoqbirwbrpqbkl.oqbWiywgpobDutpoqp,bpbrpoqildw,bmlewtk.s,
poqb.oijt.m.sl.ibImpouptq,berliwbruiytuloujbpgusuynbpuqwqbgnbyrwbptyblk
dpfw-.m,blkberujrbrwbepibpbmpiybdpiywt,bmwtduyywqbrudbylbpsdliy
kp.syswiisnbudmwtilopywbyrwbjrptpjywtbyrwnbqwiutwqbrudbylbmltytpn,buobil
kpt,bpibswpiy,bpibl.yeptqbpmmwptpojwibewtwbjlojwtowqa

YrwbImpouptqbepibolyblosnbmlewtk.sbpoqbpjyuxw,bg.ybmrniujpssnbjl.tp wl.i
pibewss,bpoqbiuojwbrwbrpqbirpxwqbruibgwptqbpoqbqloowqbyrwbv.o sw
rpgusudwoyiblkbpbYptcpo,brwbrpqbsliybolblmmlty.ouynbkltbwd.spyuo byrw
pmw-dpobuobwxwtnbepnbyrpybspnbeuyruobruibpgusuynabLkbv.o swbjtpkybrwbrpq
olowblkbjl.tiw,bpoqbmwtilopsbjldgpyibeuyrbyrwbdltwbipxp wbv.o swbgwpiyi
jp.yulobmtldmywqbrudbylbwijrwe,bg.ybrwbr.oywqbyrwbswiiwtb pdwbeuyrbimwpt
poqbeuyrbpttlebpoqbmtpjyujwqbjloyuo.pssnbeuyrbyrwb tpiibtlmwbyrpybepibp
mptyblkbruibdpfw-.ma

PoqbolebKsltpbRpefwibipebpssbrwtbewss-spuqbmspoib.mlobyrwbxwt wblk
qwiyt.jyuloabIrwbytwdgswqbpibirwbepyjrwqbyrwbdwobgwkltwbyrwbkutw,bklt
rwtbkwptblkbYptcpobepibxwtnbtwps,bpoqbyrwobirwbgwjpdwbywoiwbeuyrbowtxl.i
poyujumpyulobpibirwbipebFtpifubpmmtlpjruo byrwb tl.mbeuyrbyrwbjlkkwwbmly
uoblowbrpoqbpoqbj.mibuobyrwblyrwtabFtpifubiwybyrwbmlybpoqbyrwbj.mib.mlo
yrwb tl.oqbpbsuyyswbuobyrwbtwptblkbYptcpo,bpoq,bpibrwbkusswqbyrwbspyywt,
irwbipebrudbml.tbpbmltyuloblkbyrwbjloywoyiblkbyrwbglyyswbirwbrpqb uxwo
rudbuoylblowblkbyrwbj.miabPbjlsqbiewpybgtlfwbl.yb.mlobrwtbkltwrwpqbpi
Ftpifubsukywqbyruibj.mbpoqblkkwtwqbuybylbyrwbpmw-dpoabEl.sqbrwbypfwbuy?
El.sqbrwbi.imwjy?bUkbrwbquqbi.imwjyberpybrlttugswbm.ouirdwoybel.sqbgw
dwywqbylbyrwdbpssbkltbyrwutbywdwtuyn?bIrwbipebFtpifubrpoqbpolyrwtbj.mbyl
Mwwgswi,bYrtljf,bpoqbGs.gwt,byrwobtwy.tobylbyrwbjutjswbeuyrbyrwbspiyblow
kltbrudiwskabPibyrwbT.iiupobtpuiwqbuybgwkltwbruibkpjwbpoqbglewqbmlsuywsn
ylbyrwbpmw-dpo,birwbipebyrwbkuxwbdwobqtuofabYrwbtwpjyuloberujrbwoi.wq
swkybrwtbewpfbpoqbimwoyabY.touo ,birwbjlsspmiwqb.mlobrwtbjly,bpoqbspn
yrwtwbytwdgsuo ,brwtbkpjwbg.tuwqbuobrwtbptdabPoq,bl.yiuqw,bYptcpoblkbyrw
Pmwibqtpuowqbruibj.mbylbyrwbspiybqtlma




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbXU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbQWPYRbIYWPSIbGWRUOQ


Q.TUO byrwbpkywtolloblkbyrwbqpnbyrpybYptcpobquijlxwtwqbyrwbjpdmblkbyrw
jloimutpylti,bpbepyjrwtb.mlobyrwbjt.dgsuo bl.ywtbepssblkbyrwbt.uowqbjuyn
lkbLmptbqwijtuwqbpbmptynblkbdwobdlxuo bqleoeptqbuoylbyrwbxpsswnbktldbyrw
i.dduyblkbyrwbwojutjsuo bjsukkabYptcpo,bVpowbJspnylo,bpoqbyrwutbgspjf
Epcutubewtwbyrwblosnbiytpo wtibyrpybyrwbqwoucwoiblkbLmptbrpqbwxwtbiwwo
euyruobyrwutbxpsswnbq.tuo byrwbsukwyudwblkbyrwblsqwiybpdlo byrwd,bpoq
losnbuobrpsk-klt lyywobsw woqiblkbpbgn- lowbmpiybepibyrwtwbpon
i.  wiyulobyrpybiytpo wtiblyrwtbyrpobyrwiwbrpqbwxwtbxuiuywqbLmptabNwy
ktldbyudwbuddwdltupsbpb .ptqbrpqbpsepnibtwdpuowqb.mlobyrwbi.dduyblkbyrw
l.ywtbepssabOlebpbiuo swbfo.tswqbpoqbjtummswqbdpo-sufwbjtwpy.twbepibpss
yrpybtwjpsswqbyrwbo.dwtl.i,bsuyrwbepttultiblkbsliybPyspoyuiabKltbqleo
yrtl. rbyrwbslo bp wibyrwbtpjwbrpqbqwywtultpywqbpoqbkuopssn,byrtl. r
ljjpiulopsbdpyuo beuyrbyrwb twpybpmwi,byrwbdwobrpqbgwjldwbyrwbgwpiy-sufw
yruo iblkbdlqwtobLmptabIytpo wbpoqbuowhmsujpgswbrpqbgwwobyrwbmtlxuqwojw
lkbopy.twbyrpybrpqbjlokuowqbyruibqwywtultpyulobpsdliybilswsnbylbyrw
dpswi,bswpxuo byrwbkwdpswibiytpu ry,bewss-kltdwq,blkywoblkbjldwsnbpoq
wxwobgwp.yuk.sbkwpy.twi,bpbjloquyulobyrpybdu rybgwbspt wsnbpyytug.ypgsw
ylbyrwbkpjybyrpybkwdpswbuokpoyibmliiwiiuo bpmw-sufwbjrptpjywtuiyujibewtw
uddwqupywsnbqwiytlnwq,berusw,blobyrwblyrwtbrpoq,bglnbgpguwiberl
mliiwiiwqbm.twsnbr.dpobpyytug.ywibewtwbpsilbqlowbpepnbeuyra

YnmujpsbuoqwwqblkbyrwbdpswbuorpguypoyiblkbLmptbepibyrwbslowbepyjrwtb.mlo
yrwbl.ywtbjuynbepss,bpbirlty,biyljfnbdpobeuyrbdpyywqbrputbpoqbgwptq,brui
ypo swqbsljfib tleuo bsleb.mlobpbsle,btwjwquo bkltwrwpq;bidpss,
jsliw-iwybwnwibpoqbkpo -sufwbywwyrbgltwbwxuqwojwblkbruibiudupobpojwiytn,
pibquqbruibirlty,bjtllfwqbsw ibpoqbslo ,bd.ij.sptbpmw-sufwbptdi,bpss
ijpoyusnbrput-jlxwtwqbpibepibruibyltila

Pibruibeujfwq,bgsllq-tuddwqbwnwibepyjrwqbyrwbmtl twiiblkbyrwbmptyn
pjtliibyrwbxpsswnbyleptqbLmpt,bwxuqwojwiblkbruib tleuo bwhjuywdwoybewtw
dpoukwiywqbuobyrwbuojtwpiwqbtpmuquynblkbruibgtwpyruo ,bpoqbsle,bpsdliy
uop.qugswb tlesibyrpybuii.wqbktldbruibyrtlpyabYrwbiytpo wtibewtwbyllbkpt
quiypoybylbgwbtwjl oucpgswblosnbpibr.dpobgwuo i,bpoqbyrwutbo.dgwtbylbgw
tl. rsnbpmmtlhudpywqbpibgwyewwobyelbpoqbyrtwwbijltwabRpxuo bpii.twq
rudiwskblkbyrwiwbyelbkpjyibyrwbepyjrwtbqwijwoqwqbktldbyrwbl.ywtbepss,
jtliiwqbyrwbimpjwbgwyewwobuybpoqbyrwbuoowtbepss,byrtl. rberujrbrw
mpiiwq,bpoqbpybpbtpmuqbytlybjtliiwqbyrwbgtlpqbpxwo.wbgwnloqbpoq
quipmmwptwqbeuyruobyrwbjt.dgsuo bg.ybiyussbdp oukujwoybywdmswbgwnloqa

Jpqv,byrwbRu rbMtuwiyblkbLmpt,biz.pyywqbgwowpyrbyrwbirpqwblkbyrwb upoy
ytwwiberujrboleblxwt tweberpybrpqblojwbgwwoblowblkbyrwb ptqwoiblkbyrw
pojuwoybywdmswabEuyrbrudbewtwbpbqlcwobdwdgwtiblkbyrwbswiiwtbmtuwiyrllq,
yrwbuoyudpywbjtlouwiblkbyrwbRu rbMtuwiy,berlbewtwbiyptyswqbgnbyrwbi.qqwo
pqxwoyblkblowblkbyrwbuokwtultbdwdgwtiblkbyrwbjspoblkbLmptabYrwbkwssle
r.ttuwqbgtwpyrswiisnbylbJpqva

“Jpqv,”brwbjtuwq,b“iytpo wbdwobqwijwoqb.mlobLmpt!bKtldbyrwboltyrewiy
yrwnbrpxwbjldwbuoylbyrwbxpsswnbktldbgwnloqbyrwbgpttuwtbjsukki—kukynblk
yrwdbpybswpiy,bmwtrpmibrpskbp puobyrpybo.dgwtabUbipebyrwdbpibUbepyjrwq
ktldbyrwbi.dduyblkbyrwbl.ywtbepss,bg.ybk.tyrwtbyrpobyrwnbptwbdwobU
jpoolybipn,bkltbyrwnbptwbiyussbpb twpybquiypojwbpepnabOlybiuojwbyrw
 twpybYptdpo poubjpdwbpdlo b.ibspiybrpxwbyrwtwbgwwobiytpo wtibeuyruo
Lmpta”

“Uybrpibgwwobdponbdlloibiuojwbyrwb twpybYptdpo pouberlbjpsswqbrudiwsk
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibepibpdlo b.i,”bipuqbJpqvab“Rwbmtlduiwqb.ibylbtwy.to
gwkltwbyrwbtpuobylbiwwbyrpybolbrptdbrpqbgwkpsswobSp,bg.ybrwbquqbolybjldw
gpjfbpoqbSpbrpibpsepnibuoiuiywqbyrpybrwbuibqwpqabRpxwbnl.bylsqbponblyrwt
lkberpybnl.brpxwbiwwo?”brwbqwdpoqwq,by.touo bi.qqwosnb.mlobyrw
dwiiwo wta

“Ol,”btwmsuwqbyrwbspyywta

“ llq!”bwhjspudwqbJpqvab“Jldw,bewbeussbpssb lbylbyrwbl.ywtbepssbpoqbiww
erlbuybuiberlbqptwibwoywtbkltguqqwobLmpt,bpoqbswybolblowbgtwpyrwbpbeltq
lkberpybGsp rbrpibylsqb.ib.oyusbUb uxwbmwtduiiuloa”

“YrwbeltqblkbJpqvbuibspeb.oyusbSpbimwpfi,”bd.td.twqblowblkbyrwbmtuwiyia

Jpqvby.towqbpbijlesuo bkpjwb.mlobyrwbimwpfwtab“UbpdbRu rbMtuwiyblk
Lmpt,”brwb tleswqab“Erlbqptwibquilgwnbdw?”

“G.ybSpbuibRu rbMtuwiywii,”bipuqblow,b“poqbyrwbRu rbMtuwiywiibuibyrw
z.wwoblkbLmpta”

“G.ybyrwbRu rbMtuwiybjpoblkkwtberldbrwbeussbpibipjtukujwbuobyrwbJrpdgwt
lkbyrwbQwpqbltbylbyrwbKspduo b lq,”bJpqvbtwduoqwqbyrwblyrwtbdwpouo sna

“Ewbirpssbfwwmbiuswojw,bJpqv,”btwmsuwqbyrwbmtuwiy,bjtuo uo a

“ llq!”b tleswqbyrwbRu rbMtuwiybpoqbswqbyrwbepnbktldbyrwb ptqwobyrtl. r
yrwbjlttuqltiblkbyrwbywdmswbgpjfbyleptqbyrwbl.ywtbepssblkbLmptabKtld
rwtwbyrwnbepyjrwqbyrwbpmmtlpjruo bmptynbyrpybepibuobmspuobxuweblkbyrwd,
kptbl.ybpjtliibyrwbxpsswnabYrwbepyjrwtibjloxwtiwqbuobsleb .yy.tpsibuo
yrwbspo .p wblkbyrwb twpybpmwi,buoywtimwtiwqbeuyrberujrbewtwbljjpiulops
eltqibpoqbmrtpiwiblkbpbiytpo wbylo .wbyrpybewtwbql.gyswiibjltt.mywq
kltdiblkbyrwbpojuwoybspo .p wblkbPyspoyuibrpoqwqbqleobyrtl. rbjl.oyswii
 wowtpyuloibktldbyrwutbr.dpobmtl wouylti—yrpybolebwhyuojybtpjwberliw
juyuwibpoqbjuxusucpyulobsuwbg.tuwqbqwwmbgwowpyrbyrwbyliiuo bepxwiblkbyrw
Pyspoyuj,bpoqberliwbpqxwoy.tl.ibimutuybrpq,buobtwdlywbp wi,bjp.iwqbyrwd
ylbmwowytpywbuoylbyrwbrwptyblkbPktujpbuobiwptjrblkb lsqbpoqbylbg.usq
yrwtw,buobq.msujpyuloblkbyrwutbkptbrldwbjuyuwi,byrwbdp oukujwoybjuynblk
Lmpta

PibJpqvbpoqbruibklsslewtibepyjrwqbktldbgwowpyrbirp  nbgtleibyrw
iytpo wtibmslqquo bspgltul.isnbgwowpyrbyrwbolebqwjsuouo bwz.pyltupsbi.o
pjtliibyrwbtljfn,bgpttwobxpsswn,bpb tpnbsuyyswbdlofwnbwnwqbyrwdbktld
pduqiybyrwbklsup wblkblowblkbyrwb upoybytwwibyrpybrpqbkltjwqbuyibepn
yrtl. rbyrwbmpxwdwoyblkbyrwbpojuwoybpxwo.wbgwruoqbyrwdabPbilswdo,
ipq-kpjwqbsuyyswbdlofwnbuybepi,bg.ybsufwbpssbruibfuoqblxwtjldwbgn
j.tuliuyn,bpoqbkuopssnbylbi.jrbpobwhywoybyrpybruibkwptblkbyrwbkuwtjw
dpswiblkbLmptbepibilbjloiuqwtpgsnblxwtjldwbyrpybrwbpybspiybie.o bsu rysn
ktldbyrwbytwwbylbyrwbmpxwdwoy,bdpqwbruibepnbyrtl. rbyrwbuoowtbepssbpoq
.mbyrwbuoiuqwblkbyrwbl.ywtbepssbylbpbmliuyulobuobyrwutbtwptberwtwbrw
jl.sqbruqwbgwruoqblowblkbyrwbdpiiuxwb tpouywbgsljfiblkbyrwbjt.dgsuo 
epssbuobjldmptpyuxwbipkwynbktldbqwywjyulo,byrwberuswbrwbdu ryblxwtrwpt
yrwbjloxwtipyuloblkbyrwbLmptupoi,bpssblkberujrbyrpybepibjpttuwqblobuo
yrwbspo .p wblkbyrwb twpybpmwibrwbjl.sqb.oqwtiypoqbmwtkwjysna

Yrwbpkywtollobepibqtpeuo bylbpbjsliwbgwkltwbyrwbislesnbdlxuo bjldmpon
pmmtlpjruo bLmptbepibjsliwbwol. rbkltbuoquxuq.psibylbgwbtwjl oucpgswbuo
ponbepn,bpoqbyrwobmtwiwoysnblowblkbyrwbnl.o wtbmtuwiyibwhjspudwq
whjuywqsn:

“Uybuibrw,bJpqvabUybuibyrwb twpybYptdpo pouberlbjpssibrudiwskbYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwiabUbjpobiwwbrudbmspuosn;byrwblyrwtibptwbpssbgspjfbdwoabRwbui
.t uo byrwdblo,bmtlqquo byrwdbeuyrbruibimwptabYrwnbpjybpibyrl. rbyrwn
ewtwbpktpuqbpoqbxwtnbyutwq,bg.ybrwbuibkltjuo byrwdbklteptqa”

“Nl.bptwbi.tw,”bqwdpoqwqbJpqv,b“nl.bptwbi.twbyrpybuybuibYptcpoblkbyrw
Pmwi?”

“Ubpdbmliuyuxw,”btwmsuwqbyrwbimwpfwt,bpoqbyrwobpolyrwtblkbyrwbmtuwiyi
vluowqbruibpii.tpojwibylbyrpyblkbruibkwssleabPybspiybyrwnbewtwbjsliw
wol. rbilbyrpybJpqvbrudiwsk,berliwbwnwiu rybepibolybpib llqbpibyrpyblk
yrwbnl.o wtbdwdgwtiblkbyrwbjldmpon,btwpsucwqbyrpybuybepibuoqwwqbYptcpo
lkbyrwbPmwiberlbepibtwy.touo bylbLmptabYrwbRu rbMtuwiybijleswqbpo tusn
uobyrl. ryabI.qqwosnbrwby.towqb.mlobyrwblyrwtia

“Rwbd.iybolybjldw,”brwbjtuwq;b“rwbd.iybolybwoywtbLmptabRpiywobpoqbkwyjr
pbr.oqtwqbku ryuo bdwoabEwbeussbdwwybyrwdbpibyrwnbjldwbyrtl. rbyrwbl.ywt
epssbpoqbispnbyrwdblowbgnblowa”

“G.ybSp,”bjtuwqbrwberlbrpqbptl.iwqbJpqv’ibpo wtbuobyrwb ptqwo,b“U
quiyuojysnbtwjpssbyrpybSpblkkwtwqbyrwbktuwoqirumblkbLmptbylbYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwib.mlobyrpybyudw,bdponbdlloibp l,byrpybrwbipxwqbrwtbktldbyrw
y.ifiblkbuok.tupywqbYpoylta”

“Iuswojw,”b tleswqbJpqv,b“rwbirpssbolybwoywt;bewbirpssbispnbyrwdbpss,
yrl. rbewbowwqbolybfolebyrwutbuqwoyuynb.oyusbuybuibyllbspywabQlbnl.
.oqwtiypoq?bPoqbfole,byll,byrpyberlilwxwtbpyywdmyibylbyreptybdnbm.tmliw
irpssbquw—poqbrwbquwbolybpibpbipjtukujw,brwbirpssbquwbpybdnbrpoqi,bg.y
quwbrwbirpssabNl.brwptbdw?”bPoqbrwbmluoywqbpob.ojswpobkuo wtbpybyrw
ytwdgsuo bmtuwiya

Dpo.,byrwbdlofwn,brwptuo bpssbyrui,bepibpsdliybg.tiyuo beuyrbwhjuywdwoya
RwbfowebYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi—pibpssbyrwbdu tpyltnbdlofwnibyrwbswo yrbpoq
gtwpqyrblkbPktujpbfowebrud—rwbfowebrudbkltbpbktuwoqbpoqbmtlywjyltabYl
Dpo.byrwbdpswiblkbLmptbewtwbowuyrwtbgwpiy,boltbdpo,boltbktuwoqabRwbfowe
yrwdbpibjt.wsbpoqbi.tsnbjtwpy.twiberlbpywbyrwbkswirblkbruibfuoq,bpoqbrw
rpywqbyrwdbpjjltquo snabRwbepibyrwtwkltwb twpysnbwhwtjuiwqbpybyrwbmsly
yrpybrwbrpqbrwptqbquij.iiwqberujrbepibpudwqbpybyrwbsukwblkbyrwb twpy
Yptdpo pouabRwbijtpyjrwqbruibsuyyswb tpnbrwpq,bpoqbyrwbtllyblkbruibypus,
poqbruibgwssn,bpibrwbpyywdmywqbylbdwoypssnbqu wiyberpybrwbrpqbrwptq,bpoq
gtuo bkltyrbktldbyrwbqudbtwjwiiwiblkbruibsuyyswbgtpuobpbmspobylbklusbyrw
mtuwiyibpoqbipxwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabRwbdpqwb tlywiz.wb tudpjwibyrpy
ewtwbpudwqbpybyrwb.oi.imwjyuo bJpqvbpoqbruibklsslewti,bg.yberujrbkpuswq
ylbmwty.tgbyrwd,bmliiugsnbgwjp.iwbpbr. wb tpouywbgsljfbruqbyrwbsuyysw
dlofwnbktldbyrwdabYruibepibz.uywbyrwbdliybdldwoyl.ibyruo byrpybrpq
ljj.ttwqbuobyrwbsukwblkbDpo.abRwbepoywqbylbv.dmb.mbpoqbqleobpoqbqpojw
poqbijtwwjrbpoqbvpggwt—ylbijlsqbpoqbyrtwpywobyrwbrpywqbLmptupoi,bg.y
ildwyruo bylsqbrudbyrpybolyruo bel.sqbgwb puowqbgnbyrui,blyrwtbyrpo,
mwtrpmi,bylbsp.ojrbuobruibqutwjyulobpbirlewtblkb tpouywbduiiuswi,berujr
yrwbmtuwiyibfoweblosnbyllbewssbrlebylbyrtlebeuyrbpjj.tpjnabOlebDpo.bui
olybpbqwwmbyruofwt,bg.yb.mlobyruibljjpiulobrwbz.uywbl.yquqbrudiwsk,bpoq
dpop wqbylbjlojwoytpywbruibduoqb.mlobyrwbyruo bpybrpoqbtpyrwtbyrpo
mwtduybuyibgwuo bquiytpjywqbgnbwpjrbkpssuo bswpkbltbg.ccuo buoiwjyabRw
wxwobmwtduyywqbpbi.jj.swoybjpywtmussptbylbjtpesbeuyruobruibtwpjrbpoqbl.y
p puobeuyrbudm.ouyna

V.iybgwkltwbqptfowiibkwss,bJpqvbipebpbsuyyswb tpnbdlofwnbquipmmwptblxwt
yrwbi.dduyblkbyrwbl.ywtbepssbkukynbmpjwibktldberwtwbrwbjtl.jrwqbeuyrbrui
kwsslei,bepuyuo bkltbyrwbjlduo blkbyrwbku ryuo bdwoabG.ybilbo.dwtl.i
ewtwbyrwbdlofwnibpgl.ybyrwbt.uoiblkbLmptbyrpybyrwbljj.ttwojwbswkybJpqv’i
duoqbpsdliybpibz.ujfsnbpibyrwbdlofwnbquipmmwptwqbktldbruibxuwe,bpoqbuo
yrwb pyrwtuo b slldbrwbquqbolybiwwbyrwbsuyyswb tpnbku .twbijpdmwtuo blkk
pjtliibyrwbxpsswnbyleptqbyrwbgpoqblkbuoyt.qwtiberlbolebpmmwptwqbylbrpxw
iylmmwqbylbtwiybpybyrwbkllyblkbpbspt wbflmvwbyrpybiyllqbpslowbl.ybuobyrw
xpsswn,bpgl.ybpbduswbktldbyrwbjuyna

SuyyswbDpo.bepibxwtnbd.jrbpktpuqbl.ybyrwtwbpslowbuobyrwb tleuo bq.if,
poqbrwbijpdmwtwqbxwtnbkpiybeuyrbruibypusbglewqb.mbpoqbl.ybgwruoqbruda
Pssbyrwbyudwbrwbjpiybpkktu rywqb spojwibylbyrwbtu rybpoqbswkyabYrw
dldwoybrwbtwpjrwqbyrwbflmvwbrwbijpdmwtwqb.mbuyibkpjwbpibkpiybpibrw
jl.sqabUybepibtwpssnbpbr. w,bmtwjumuyl.ib tpouywbtljfbeuyrbpsdliy
mwtmwoquj.sptbiuqwi,bg.ybi.kkujuwoysnbewpyrwt-eltobylbdpfwbuyibpijwoy
wpinbylbsuyyswbDpo.abRwbmp.iwqbpbdldwoybpybyrwbi.dduybylb wybruibgtwpyr
poqbiyussbyrwbgwpyuo iblkbruibktu rywowqbsuyyswbrwpty,bpoqbyrwobrwbdpqw
ruibepnbptl.oqbylbpbmluoyberwtwbrwbjl.sqbsllfbqleob.mlobyrwbmptyn
gwowpyra

Yrwtw,buoqwwq,bepibyrwb twpybYptdpo poubYptcpo,bpoqbeuyrbrudbewtwbildw
kukynb ldpo pouabYrwbspyywtbewtwbimsujuo byl wyrwtbpbo.dgwtblkbslo ,
iytpu rybmlswi,berujrbyrwnbrpqbspuqb.mlobyrwb tl.oqbuobyelbmptpssws
suowiabPjtliibyrwiwbyel,bpybuoywtxpsiblkbpbkllybltbdltw,byrwnbewtw
spiruo bidpsswtbiytpu rybgtpojrwibpgl.ybwu rywwobuojrwibuobswo yr,byrw
erlswbkltduo bpbjt.qwbg.ybi.giypoyupsbspqqwtabYrwbm.tmliwblkbpssbyrui
Dpo.,blkbjl.tiw,bquqbolyb.oqwtiypoq,boltbquqbrwbfolebyrpybuybrpqbgwwo
wxlsxwqbktldbyrwbkwtyuswbgtpuoblkbKsltpbRpefwibpibpbdwpoiblkbijpsuo byrw
mtwjumuyl.ibflmvw,bpybyrwbi.dduyblkberujrbspnbyrwbl.ywtbwoytpojwbylbyrw
ytwpi.twbxp.syiblkbLmptabOltbquqbDpo.bfolebyrpybyrwbmptynbrpqbol
uoywoyuloblkbwoywtuo byrwbjuynblkbLmptbpoqbewtwbyrwtwkltwbuobolbqpo wt
lkbgwjlduo bxujyudiblkbJpqv’ibruqqwobpiipiiuoiabYlbrud,byrwbqpo wtbyl
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibepibxwtnbtwps,bpoqbil,brpxuo btw puowqbruibgtwpyr,brw
sliybolbyudwbuobqwsuxwtuo bruibeptouo bylbyrwbktuwoqblkbruibmwlmswa

“Yptcpo,”brwbjtuwq,buobyrwbspo .p wbyrpybepibjlddlobylbglyra

Yrwberuywbdpobpoqbyrwbgspjfibsllfwqb.mbpybyrwbil.oqblkbruibjrpyywtuo 
xlujwa

“UybuibDpo.,bYptcpo,”bjloyuo.wqbyrwbsuyyswbdlofwn,b“erlbrpibjldwbylbywss
nl.bolybylb lbylbLmptabJpqvbpoqbruibmwlmswbpepuybeuyruobyrwbl.ywtbepss
ylbispnbnl.a”

Yrwbgspjfi,brpxuo bquijlxwtwqbyrpybyrwbp.yrltblkbyrwbquiy.tgpojwbepi
olyruo bg.ybpbsuyyswb tpnbdlofwn,btwy.towqbuddwqupywsnbylbyrwutbeltf,
eruswbyrwberuywbdpobiudusptsnbu oltwqbruibeltqiblkbeptouo abDpo.bepiboly
i.tmtuiwqbpybyrwbspjfblkbuoywtwiybquimspnwqbgnbyrwbgspjfi,bkltbrwbfowe
yrpybyrwnbquqbolyb.oqwtiypoqbruibspo .p w,bg.ybrwbjl.sqbolybjldmtwrwoq
ernbYptcpobkpuswqbylbmpnbponbpyywoyuloberpyilwxwtbylbrudabP puobpoq
p puobrwbjpsswqbYptcpobgnbopdwabP puobpoqbp puobrwbirtuwfwqbruibeptouo 
ylbyrwbpmw-dpo,bg.ybeuyrl.ybwsujuyuo bponbtwmsnbltbponbuokltdpyulobyrpy
yrwb twpybYptdpo poubrpqbwuyrwtbrwptqbltb.oqwtiyllqbrudabDpo.bepi
dniyukuwqabErpybrpqbljj.ttwqbylbtwoqwtbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibilbuoqukkwtwoy
ylbyrwbeptouo iblkbruiblsqbktuwoq?

Pybspiybyrwbsuyyswbdlofwnb pxwbuyb.mbpoqbsllfwqbslo uo snbgpjfbuobyrw
qutwjyuloblkbyrwbytwwibeuyruobyrwbepsswqbjuynblkbLmptabUybepibolebxwtn
qptfbpoqbrwbytwdgswqbpybyrwbyrl. ryblkbtwjtliiuo byrwbxpsswn,berwtwbrw
fowebwowduwibdu rybmtlesbgnbou ryabRwbijtpyjrwqbruibrwpqbpoqbrwbr.  wq
ruibfowwi,byrwobipybyrwtwberudmwtuo ,bpbxwtnbkltsltobpoqb.orpmmnbsuyysw
gpssblkbpbdlofwnabG.ybrlewxwtb.ojldkltypgswbrwbepib.mlobyrwbru rbflmvw,
rwbepibjldmptpyuxwsnbipkw,bpoqbilbrwbqwjuqwqbylbtwdpuobyrwtwbq.tuo byrw
ou rybtpyrwtbyrpobxwoy.twbyrwbywttuknuo btwy.tobytumbyrtl. rbyrw
qptfowiiabYr.ibuybepibyrpybrwbipebyrwbspqqwtbjldmswywqbpoqbwtwjywq
p puoiybyrwbiuqwblkbyrwbflmvw;bpoqberwobyrwbdllobtliwbpybspiybpoq
su rywqbyrwbijwow,brwbipebYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwib.t uo bruibdwobylbdl.oybyrw
spqqwtabRwbrpqbowxwtbiwwobYptcpobyr.ibtl. rbpoqbjt.wsbeuyrbyrwbgspjfi
erlbpjjldmpouwqbrudabDpo.bfowebrlebkwtljul.ibyrwb twpybYptdpo poubjl.sq
gwbeuyrbpobwowdn,berwyrwtbdpobltbgwpiy,bg.ybrwbrpqbowxwtbiwwobrudbpjjltq
i.jrbytwpydwoybylbyrwbgspjfiberlbewtwbruibktuwoqia

Lowbgnblowbpoqbeuyrbwxuqwoybtws.jypojwbyrwbgspjfibpijwoqwqbyrwbspqqwt,
jloyuo.pssnb.t wqbklteptqbylb twpywtbimwwqbgnbyrwbirptmbimwptblkbyrw
eruywbdpo;berwobyrwnbrpqbpssbpijwoqwqbYptcpobklsslewq,bpoqbDpo.bipebyrwd
quipmmwptbpmmptwoysnbuoylbyrwbrwptyblkbyrwb twpybtljfa

Uybepiblosnbpbirltybyudwbspywtbyrpybyrwnbjlddwojwqbylbtwpmmwpt,bpoqbole
wpjrbepibg.tqwowqbgnbyelbrwpxnblgvwjyiberujrbpmmwptwqbylbDpo.bylbgwbxwtn
iudusptbylbildwblkbyrwbidpsswtbiylowbgsljfibyrpybrpqbgwwob.iwqbuobyrw
jloiyt.jyuloblkbyrwbg.usquo ibuobLmptabRwbipebyrwdbypfwbyrwbgsljfibyl
yrwbwq wblkbyrwbflmvwbpoqbjpiybyrwdblxwtbylbyrwb tl.oqbgwowpyr,bpoqberwo
yrwbspiyblkbyrwbgspjfibrpqbwdwt wqbeuyrbruibslpqbpoqbjpiybuybylbyrw
xpsswnbgwsle,blowbgnblowbyrwbmptynbqwijwoqwqbyrwbspqqwtbylbyrwbkllyblk
yrwbflmvwabG.ybyruibyudwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibewoybkutiyabYrwobyrwn
slewtwqbyrwbspqqwtbpoqbyllfbuybpmptybpoqbspuqbuyibmuwjwibjsliwbylbyrw
kllyblkbyrwbjsukk,bpkywtberujrbyrwnbyllfb.mbyrwbgsljfiberujrbyrwnbrpq
gtl. rybktldbyrwbrwptyblkbyrwbflmvw,bpoqbklssleuo bYptcpo,berlbiwybl.y
uobyrwbswpq,byrwnbjlddwojwqbylbtwytpjwbyrwutbiywmibyleptqbyrwbtudblkbyrw
xpsswna

Dpo.bel.sqbrpxwbgwwobxwtnbd.jrbdniyukuwqbrpqbrwbgwwobpbdpo,bg.ybgwuo 
losnbpbdlofwnbrwbipeblosnberpybrwbipebeuyrl.ybpyywdmyuo bylbtwpilobxwtn
d.jrbpgl.ybuyabRwbfowebyrpybyrwbepniblkbdwobewtwbmwj.supt,bpoq
lkywoyudwib.opjjl.oypgswabKltbwhpdmsw,byrwb ldpo pouberlbjl.sqboly
ytpxwsbyrtl. rbyrwbv.o swbpoqbyrwbkltwiybeuyrbyrwbwpiwblkbponblyrwtblk
yrwbpoudpsiberujrbktwz.woywqbyrwd,bpqqwqbylbyrwutbqukkuj.syuwibgn
slpquo byrwdiwsxwibqleobeuyrbpqquyulopsbewu ryibuobyrwbkltdblkbdwyps
pofswyibpoqbptdswyi,beuyrbowjfspjwibpoqb utqswi,bpoqbeuyrbifuoiblk
poudpsi,berujrbquqbolyruo bdltwbyrpobudmwqwbyrwutbmtl twiibpoqbtwoqwt
sukwbd.jrbdltwbjldmsujpywqbyrpobyrpyberujrbyrwb.oytpddwswqbgwpiyi
wovlnwqabDpo.,berwowxwtbrwb pxwbyrwbdpyywtbpbyrl. ry,bjlo tpy.spywq
rudiwskbyrpybrwbepibolybpbdpo—rwbmuyuwqbyrwbkllsuir,b.otwpilopgsw
jtwpy.twia



Dpo.bd.iybrpxwbiswmyabRwbyrl. rybyrpybrwbrpqblosnbjsliwqbruibwnwibp
dldwoy,bg.yberwobrwblmwowqbyrwdbyrwbtlinbsu ryblkbqpeobrpqblxwtimtwpq
yrwbqwilspywbxpsswnabV.iybquipmmwptuo blxwtbyrwbjsukkibylbyrwboltyrwpiy
rwbjl.sqbiwwbyrwbspiyblkbYptcpo’ibmptynbjlddwojuo byrwbqwijwoyblkbyrw
gpttuwt,byrwobDpo.by.towqbruibkpjwbyleptqbLmptbpoqbmtwmptwqbylbqwijwoq
ktldbyrwbflmvw,bpoqbijpdmwtbgpjfbylbyrwbipkwynblkbruibytwwibeuyruobyrw
epssiblkbLmptabG.ybkutiybrwbel.sqbtwjlooluywt—Irwwyp,byrwbmpoyrwt,
du rybgwbiyussbpgtlpq,bpoqbilbrwbijpdmwtwqbptl.oqbyrwbwq wblkbyrwbflmvw
ylbpbmluoyberwtwbrwbjl.sqbiwwbyrwbwoyutwbxpsswnbkslltbgwyewwobrudiwsk
poqbLmptabPoqbyrwtwbuybepibyrpybrwbipebp puobyrpyberujrbkusswqbrudbeuyr
 twpywiybwhjuywdwoyabKlt,bqwgl.jruo bktldbyrwbt.uowqbl.ywtbepssblkbLmpt
epibpbspt wbjldmponblkbLmpt’ibktu ryk.sbdwo—k.ssnbpbr.oqtwqblkbyrwd
Dpo.bjl.sqbrpxwbjl.oywqbrpqbDpo.bgwwobpgswbylbjl.oya

Yrwnbiwwdwqbylbgwbjlduo byleptqbyrwbflmvw,bpoqbrwbipybpoqbepyjrwqbyrwd
pibyrwnbpmmtlpjrwq,bqwjuquo bylbqwkwtbruibtwy.tobylbyrwbjuynb.oyusbpkywt
yrwbmpyrbepibjswptwqblkbrpywqbLmptupoiabUybljj.ttwqbylbrudbyrpybyrwn
ewtwbjlduo bpkywtbrud,bkltbyrwbw lyuidblkbyrwbslewtbpoudpsibui
uoltquopywabGwjp.iwbrwbepibpbdlofwn,byrwbuqwpbquqbolybiwwdbpybpss
tuquj.sl.ibpoqbilbrwbruqbgwruoqbpbv.yyuo btljf,beuyrblosnblowbsuyysw,
gtu rybwnwbwhmliwqbylbyrwbwowdnabRwbipebyrwdbjldwbjsliwtbpoqbrwb twe
xwtnbd.jrbwhjuywq,byrl. rbrwbepibolybpybpssbpktpuq,bkltbrwbfowebyrpybuk
yrwnbpijwoqwqblowbiuqwblkbyrwbflmvwbrwbjl.sqbqwijwoqbyrwblyrwtbpoqbgw
rpsk-epnbylbLmptbgwkltwbyrwnbjl.sqbmliiugsnbsljpywbrudbp puoa

Lobpoqblobyrwnbjpdw,bg.ybyrwnbquqbolybiylmbpybyrwbflmvw—pibpbdpyywtblk
kpjybyrwnbquqbolybjldwbxwtnbjsliwbylbuy,bg.ybjloyuo.wqblobgwnloqbuya
Yrwobuybepibyrpybyrwbyt.yrblkbyrwbdpyywtbkspirwqbuoylbyrwbsuyyswbgtpuo
lkbyrwbdlofwn—Jpqvbpoqbruibmwlmswbewtwbm.ti.uo bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibyl
ispnbrudabUkbDpo.brpqbgwwoblkkwoqwqbgnbYptcpo’ibuoqukkwtwojwbylbrudb.mlo
yrwbou rybgwkltw,brwbrpqbwxuqwoysnbklt lyywobuy,bkltbolebrwbepibz.uywbpi
whjuywqbpgl.ybyrwbqpo wtberujrbrwbipebdwopjwbyrwbpmw-dpobpibrwbrpqbgwwo
.mlobyrwbpkywtollobmtwxul.iabPybkutiybrwbyrl. ryblkbt.oouo bprwpq,bpoq
p puobeptouo bYptcpo,bg.ybrwbkwptwqbylbxwoy.twbilbkptbktldbyrwbytwwiblk
Lmpt,bwxwobukbyrwbyrl. ryblkbrpxuo bylbmpiibyrwbrpywqbLmptupoibrpqboly
gwwobi.kkujuwoybylbqwywtbrudbktldbjpttnuo bl.ybyruibmspoabKltbpbkwe
duo.ywibrwbipybepyjruo byrwd,b.oyusbyrwnbrpqbpssbmpiiwqbyrwbflmvw,bpoq
yrwobuybgwjpdwbz.uywbjswptbylbrudbyrpybyrwnbewtwbrwpquo bqutwjysnbklt
yrwbimlybpyberujrbyrwbspiyblkbYptcpo’ibmptynbrpqbquipmmwptwqbktldbyrw
xpsswn—yrwtwbjl.sqbgwbolbql.gybyrpybyrwnbewtwbuobm.ti.uyblkbyrw
pmw-dpoa

Dpo.bijpoowqbyrwbxpsswnblojwbdltwbyleptqbLmptabYrwtwbepibolyruo buo
iu rybylbqwywtbrudbktldbpobpyywdmywqbtwy.to,bpoqbil,beuyrbyrwbp usuynblk
ruibfuoq,brwbijpdmwtwqbqleobyrwbxwtyujpsbkpjwblkbyrwbflmvwbpoqbepiblkk
pyb twpybimwwqbyleptqbyrwbjuyn’ibepssabV.iyberwobrwbkltd.spywqbyrwbmspo
yrpybrwbwxwoy.pssnbklsslewqbuybuibqukkuj.sybylbipnabMwtrpmibrwbyrl. ry
uybpssbl.ybpibrwbipyb.mlobyrwbflmvw,bepyjruo bJpqvbpoqbruibmwlmswb.mlo
yrwbytpusblkbyrwbpmw-dpo,bltbmwtrpmibuybljj.ttwqbylbrudberuswbrwbepi
ijpdmwtuo bpjtliibyrwbgpttwobepiywbyleptqbLmptabUybdpnbv.iybrpxwbmlmmwq
uoylbruibduoqbktldbpbjswptbifnbpkywtbrwbrpqbtw puowqbyrwbswpknbipojy.ptn
lkbruibleobytwwiabGwbyrpy,brlewxwtbpibuybdpn,byrwbkpjybtwdpuoi,byrpybpi
Sp,bRu rbMtuwiywiibpoqbmtuojwiiblkbLmpt,buobjldmponbeuyrbiwxwtpsblkbrwt
mtuwiywiiwi,bepibgpyruo buobpbmllsbuoblowblkbyrwbywdmswb ptqwoi,birwbepi
iyptyswqbgnbyrwbijtwpduo blkbpbdlofwn,bieuo uo bktpoyujpssnbgnbruibypus
ktldbyrwbgtpojrblkbpb twpybytwwberujrblxwtimtwpqbyrwbmlls—uybepibp
suyyswb tpnbdlofwnbeuyrbpbkpjwbilbeuiwbpoqbiwtul.ibyrpyblowbdu rybwpiusn
rpxwbudp uowqbyrpybyrwbkpywblkbopyuloibspnbjloiypoysnb.mlobyrwbirl.sqwti
lkbuyibleowta

“Sp,bSp,”buybijtwpdwq,b“yrwnbrpxwb lowbylbfussbYptcpoabYrwnbrpxwb lowbyl
fussbYptcpoa”

Pybyrwbil.oqblkbyrpybopdwbSpbepibuoiypoysnbpssbpyywoyuloabIypoquo bepuiy
qwwmbuobyrwbmllsbirwbsllfwqb.mbpybyrwbsuyyswbdlofwnbz.wiyulouo snab“Erpy
qlbnl.bdwpo,bDpo.?”birwbpifwqab“UybrpibgwwobdponbdlloibiuojwbYptcpobepi
pybLmptabRwbuibolybrwtwboleabErpybptwbnl.bypsfuo bpgl.y?”

“Ubipebrud,”bijtwpdwqbDpo.,b“Ubipebrudbspiybou rybeuyrbdponb ldpo poua
Rwbjpdwbylbyrwb twpybtljfbyrpybsuwibuobyrwbxpsswnbgwkltwbLmpt;beuyrbpss
ruibdwobrwbjsudgwqbylbyrwbylmblkbuy,bewoybuoylbyrwbrwptyblkbuy,bpoqbjpdw
l.ybeuyrbiylowiberujrbyrwnbyrtwebqleobuoylbyrwbxpsswnabPkywteptqbyrwn
qwijwoqwqbktldbyrwbtljf,bpoqbmujfwqb.mbyrwbiylowibp puobpoqbswkybyrw
xpsswn—yrwtw,”bpoqbDpo.bmluoywqbyleptqbyrwboltyrwpiybeuyrblowblkbrui
rputnbsuyyswbkuo wtia

“Rlebqlbnl.bfolebuybepibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi?”bpifwqbSpa

“QlwibDpo.bolybfolebruibjl.iuobpoqbruibktuwoq?”bqwdpoqwqbyrwbdlofwna
“EuyrbdnbwnwibUbipebrud—uybepibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwia”

SpblkbLmptbm.jfwtwqbrwtbgtleibuobyrl. ryabQwwmbuobrwtbrwptybidlsqwtwq
yrwbkutwiblkbrwtb twpybslxwbkltbYptcpoabKutwibyrpybrpqbgwwobz.wojrwqbgn
yrwbowjwiiuynbyrpybrpqbjldmwsswqbrwtbdpttup wbeuyrbJpqvbiuojwbspiybirw
rpqbiwwobyrwbpmw-dpoabKltbuybuibetuyywobpdlo byrwbspeiblkbLmptbyrpybyrw
Ru rbMtuwiywiiblkbyrwbKspduo b lqbd.iybypfwbpbdpywbeuyruobpbjwtypuo
o.dgwtblkbnwptibpkywtbrwtbjloiwjtpyuloabKltbdponbdlloibrpqbSpbslo wqbyl
dpfwbYptcpobyrpybdpywabYrwbpmw-dpobrpqbolybslxwqbrwt,bpoqbkuopssnbirw
rpqbjldwbylbpbtwpsucpyulobyrpybrwbjl.sqbowxwtbslxwbrwtabPkywteptqbirw
rpqbglewqbylbyrwbktu ryk.sbkpywbyrpybrpqbmspjwqbrwtbuobyrwbptdiblkbJpqva

PibdloyrbpkywtbdloyrbrpqbmpiiwqbpoqbYptcpobrpqbolybtwy.towqbylbLmpt,bpi
rwbrpqbmtlduiwqbrwbel.sqbql,bylbiwwbyrpybolbrptdbgwkwssbSp,birwbrpqbjldw
ylbpjjwmybyrwblmuouloblkbJpqvbyrpybyrwbpmw-dpobepibqwpq,bpoqbyrl. rbirw
rpywqbyrwbtwm.siuxwbJpqvbolowbyrwbswii,brwtbslxwbkltbYptcpobrpq
 tpq.pssnbgwjldwbsuyyswbdltwbyrpobpbilttlek.sbdwdltnabOlebylbswptobyrpy
rwbepibpsuxwbpoqbrpqbgwwobilbowptbepibsufwbtw-lmwouo bpoblsqbel.oqabPy
kutiybirwbjldmtwrwoqwqbsuyyswbwsiwbyrpobyrpybYptcpobrpqbgwwobjsliwbyl
Lmpt,bg.ybmtwiwoysnbyrwbjtuwiblkbDpo.bptl.iwqbrwtbylbpbtwpsucpyulobyrpy
yrwbpmw-dpobepibuobqpo wt—v.iyberpybyrwbqpo wtbepi,birwbquqbolybfolea

“Erlbrpib lowbylbfussbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi?”birwbqwdpoqwqbi.qqwosna

“Jpqv,bJpqv!”birtuwfwqbDpo.ab“Rwbrpib lowbeuyrbdpon,bdponbdwo,bpoqbui
klssleuo b.mlobyrwbimlltblkbYptcpoa”

Spbimtpo bz.ujfsnbktldbyrwbmlls,biwucwqbrwtb utqswbpoqbltopdwoyibktld
rwtbpyywoqpoybpoqbpqv.iyuo byrwdbr.ttuwqsn,bimwqbyrtl. rbyrwb ptqwobpoq
uoylbyrwbywdmswa




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbXUU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb“NL.bD.IYbIPJTUKUJWbRUD”


EPTUSNbJPQVbpoqbruibr.oqtwqbktu ryk.sbklsslewti,bptdwqbeuyrbyrwut
gs.q wloibpoqbfouxwi,bjtwmybiywpsyrusnbqleobyrwbkpjwblkbyrwbgpttuwtbuoyl
yrwbxpsswnbgwsle,b.mlobyrwbytpusblkbyrwberuywbdpobpoqbruibgspjf
jldmpouloiabYrwnbdpqwbolbrpiyw,bkltbyrwnbrpqbolywqbktldbyrwbi.dduyblk
Lmpt’ibl.ywtbepss,byrpybyrwbmptynbyrwnbewtwbm.ti.uo bdlxwqbxwtnbislesn,
yrl. rbern,byrwnbquqbolybfole,bkltbyrwnbrpqbgwwobpybyllb twpybpbquiypojw
ylbiwwbyrwbg.tqwobyrpybwpjrblkbyrwbgspjfibjpttuwqabOltbepibuybJpqv’i
qwiutwbylblxwtypfwbruibz.pttnbgnbqpnsu ry,bruibmspoibjloywdmspyuo bp
iywpsyrnbou rybpyypjf,byrwbi.qqwoowiiblkberujr,byl wyrwtbeuyrbyrwb twpy
o.dgwtblkbruibklsslewti,bdu rybwpiusnbjlok.iwbpoqblxwterwsdbpbiswwmuo 
jpdma

YrwbimlltbyrwnbklsslewqbepibewssbdptfwqabYrwtwbjl.sqbgwbolbduiypfuo buy,
poqbyrwnbdlxwqbislesnbqleobyrwboleb woyswbqwjsuxuyn,byleptqbyrwbglyyld
lkbyrwbxpsswnabUybepibjsliwbylbollobyrpybyrwnbewtwbgtl. rybylbpbi.qqwo
rpsybgnbyrwbquijlxwtnblkbpbyrltobgldpbtwjwoysnbjloiyt.jywqbuobpbidpss
jswptuo bv.iybprwpqblkbyrwdabKtldbyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwbgldpbptliwbyrwbyruo
idlfwblkbpbqnuo bkutwabRwtw,byrwo,bepibyrwbjpdmblkbyrwbpmw-dpoa

Jpqvbqtwebruibklsslewtibuoylbyrwbjlojwpsdwoyblkbyrwbyrujfbg.irwibyrpy
gltqwtwqbyrwbytpus,bpoqbktldbyrwtwbrwbiwoybprwpqbpbiuo swbdpobyl
twjlooluywtabUybepibg.ybpbkwebdldwoyibspywtbyrpybyrwbspyywtbtwy.towqbyl
ipnbyrpybyrwbjpdmbepibqwiwtywq,bpoqblojwbp puobJpqvbdlxwqbklteptqbeuyr
ruibdwoabWoywtuo byrwbgldpbyrwnbwhpduowqbuybuobpobwkkltybylbwiyudpywbyrw
iucwblkbyrwbmptynbyrpybpjjldmpouwqbYptcpoabPibyrwnbewtwbyr.ibljj.muwq
Jpqvbipebildwyruo bsnuo brpskbjlojwpswqbgnbg.irwibpybyrwbkptbwoqblkbyrw
gldpabXwtnbeptusnbrwbpmmtlpjrwqbuy,bkltbyrwtwbepibyrpybpgl.ybuyberujr
olyblosnbptl.iwqbruibj.tuliuynbg.ybmtldmywqbrudbylbjp.yulo,bkltbuy
twiwdgswqbuoquiyuojysnbyrwbku .twblkbpbdpo,bsnuo br.qqswqb.mlobyrw
 tl.oqa

Euyrbtwpqnbgs.q wloibpbqlcwoblkbyrwdbpmmtlpjrwqbyrwbyruo byrpybrpq
ptl.iwqbJpqv’ibj.tuliuyn,bpoqberwobyrwnbrpqbjldwbjsliwbylbuybyrwnbipe
snuo bgwkltwbyrwdbyrwbsukwswiibku .twblkbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwia

“YrwbKspduo b lqbrpibtwpjrwqbkltyrbylbpxwo wbruibqwiwjtpywqbpsypt,”
jtuwqbyrwbRu rbMtuwiy,bruibwnwib sleuo beuyrbyrwbdpoupjpsbkutwiblk
kpopyujuidabG.ybpolyrwtbmtuwiy,bdltwbmtpjyujps,bmwtrpmi,bltbpybswpiy
dltwbjp.yul.i,bfowwswqbgwiuqwbyrwbku .twblkbyrwbpmw-dpobpoqbmspjwqbrui
wptbp puoiybyrwbspyywt’ibrwptya

“Rwbuibolybqwpq,”brwberuimwtwq;b“mwtrpmibrwblosnbiswwmia”

“Iwucwbrud,byrwo,bz.ujfsn,”bjtuwqbJpqv,bpoqbpobuoiypoybspywtbYptcpo’i
glqnbepibjlxwtwqbgnbyrwbrputnbkltdiblkbpibdponblkbyrwbktu ryk.sbdwobpi
jl.sqbmuswb.mlobrudabRwblkkwtwqbolbtwiuiypojw—rwbquqbolybwxwoblmwobrui
wnwi,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbruibptdibewtwbiwj.twsnbgl.oqbgwruoqbruda

“Qtp brudbkltyrberwtwbyrwbwnwblkbyrwbKspduo b lqbdpnbtwiyb.mlobrud,”
jtuwqbJpqvabYrwnbqtp  wqbYptcpobl.ybuoylbyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwbgldpbuoylbyrw
k.ssbsu ryblkbyrwbi.o,bpoqbJpqv,byrwbRu rbMtuwiy,bqtpeuo bruibfoukwbktld
ruibsluobjslyr,btpuiwqbuybpglxwbruibrwpqbpoqbiyllqblxwtbyrwbmtliytpyw
kltdblkbruibuoywoqwqbxujyudabJpqv’ibklsslewtibkltdwqbpbtl. rbjutjsw
pgl.ybyrwbpmw-dpobpoqbildwblkbyrwdbmtwiiwqbjsliwbgwruoqbyrwutbswpqwta
Yrwnbpmmwptwqb.owpin,bsllfuo bpsywtopywsnbpybYptcpobpoqbyrwutbRu r
Mtuwiy,bpoqbyrwobjpiyuo bk.tyuxwb spojwibpybyrwbi.o,btuquo bru rbuobp
jsl.q-dlyyswqbifnabG.yberpywxwtbyrwbyrl. ryibyrpybytl.gswqbyrwut
rpsk-ipxp wbgtpuoi,byrwtwbepiblosnblowberlbqptwqbxlujwbrui,bpoqbrwbepi
yrwbipdwbmtuwiyberl,b.mlobyrwbmtwjwquo bqpn,brpqbz.wiyulowqbJpqv’i
mtlmlipsbylbispnbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“Jpqv,”brwbipuqbole,b“erlbptwbnl.bylblkkwtb.mbpbipjtukujwbylbyrwbKspduo 
 lq?bUybuibyrwbmtuxusw wbpslowblkbSp,bl.tbRu rbMtuwiywiibpoqbl.tbz.wwo,
poqbuoqwwqbeussbirwbgwbpo tnberwobirwbswptoiberpybnl.brpxwbqlowa”

“Iuswojw,bQllyr!”bjtuwqbJpqv;b“U,bJpqv,bpdbyrwbRu rbMtuwiyblkbLmptabU,
Jpqv,bpdbyrwbdpywblkbSp,byrwbz.wwoabDnbeltq,byll,buibspebuobLmptabPoq
nl.bel.sqbtwdpuobpbmtuwiy,bpoqbnl.bel.sqbtwdpuobpsuxw,bfwwmbiuswojwa”

“Nl.tbeltqbuibolybspe,”btwmsuwqbGllyr,bpo tusn,b“poqbukbnl.bpo wtbSp,
yrwbRu rbMtuwiywii,bltbukbnl.bpo wtbyrwbKspduo b lq,bnl.bdpnbgwbm.ouirwq
pibpolyrwtabUkbnl.bdpfwbyruibipjtukujwbglyrbeussbgwbpo tna”

“Wol. r,”bjtuwqbJpqv;b“yrwbKspduo b lqbrpibimlfwobylbdwbpoqbrpibqwdpoqwq
yrpybUblkkwtb.mbpibipjtukujwbyruibqwkuswtblkbruibywdmswa”

Rwbfowsybgwiuqwbyrwbpmw-dpobpoqbyl.jrwqbruibgtwpiybpglxwbyrwbrwptybeuyr
yrwbmluoyblkbruibirptmbgspqw,bpoqbyrwobrwbtpuiwqbyrwbewpmlobru rbpglxw
rud,bmtwmptpyltnbylbyrwbkpypsbms.o wbuoylbyrwbsuxuo brwptyabPybyrpy
uoiypoybpbjsl.qbmpiiwqbgwkltwbyrwbkpjwblkbyrwbi.obpoqbpbirpqlebtwiywq
.mlobyrwdabPbd.td.tbtliwbktldbyrwbi.ttl.oquo bmtuwiyia

“Sllf,”bjtuwqbQllyr,b“yrwbKspduo b lqbuibpo tnabRwbrpibruqqwobruibkpjw
ktldbyrwbmwlmswblkbLmpta”

Jpqvbmp.iwqabRwbjpiybpbrpsk-qwkupoy,brpsk-ktu rywowqbsllfbpybyrwbjsl.q
lgij.tuo byrwbkpjwbltbyrwbi.oabYrwobrwbtliwbislesnbylbruibkwwy,bpoq
whywoquo bruibptdib.meptqbyleptqbyrwbruqqwob lqblkbqpn,brwbtwdpuowqbklt
pbdldwoybiuswoybuobpmmptwoysnbpyywoyuxwbpoqbsuiywouo bpyyuy.qwabYrwo,
i.qqwosn,brwby.towqb.mlobruibklsslewtia

“MtuwiyiblkbLmpt,”brwbjtuwq,b“yrwbKspduo b lqbrpibimlfwobylbruibRu r
Mtuwiy,bJpqvabRwbuibolybpo wtwqabRwbg.ybeuirwibylbimwpfbylbdwbpslow,bpoq
rwbqutwjyibyrpybnl.b lbpepnbuoylbyrwbv.o swbpoqbepuyb.oyusbrwbrpibjldw
poqbimlfwobylbJpqv,bpkywtberujrbUbirpssbjpssbnl.bylbtwy.toab l!”

KltbyrwbdliybmptybyrwnbiwwdwqbylbpjjwmybyrwbeltqblkbJpqvbpibspe,bg.y
Qllyrbpoqbpbkweblyrwti,bql.gyswiibmtldmywqbgnbpbjwtypuobifwmyujuid,
rwiuypywqa

“Gwb low!”bjlddpoqwqbJpqvabPoqbilbmlewtk.sbuibyrwbrpguyblkblgwquwojw
yrpybyrwbql.gywtibkuopssnby.towqbpepnbpoqbdwsywqbuoylbyrwbv.o swbeuyr
yrwblyrwtiabPbjtpkynbiduswbsu rywqbyrwbjt.wsbkpjwblkbyrwbRu rbMtuwiybpi
yrwbspiyblkbyrwdbquipmmwptwqbktldbiu ry,bpoqbyrwobrwblojwbp puoby.towq
ruibpyywoyulobylbyrwbpmw-dpoabYrpy,bqwwmbeuyruobruibgtwpiybrlewxwt,
s.tfwqbpobuorwtwoybkwptblkbruibqwuyn,bepibwxuqwojwqbgnbyrwbkpjybyrpybrw
y.towqbz.wiyulouo b spojwibyleptqbyrwbifnabRwbrpqbqwywtduowqbylbispnbyrw
pmw-dpoberuswbQllyrbpoqbyrwblyrwtibewtwbpgiwoy,bnwybyrwbkwptblkbruib lq
twiytpuowqbruibrpoqb.oyusbyrwbsu ryblkbruibqwuynbirl.sqbiruowbkltyrb.mlo
rudblojwbdltwbpoqbpii.twbrudbyrpybyrwbyruo brwbjloywdmspywqbdu rybdwwy
euyrbkpxlta

Uybepibpbspt wbjsl.qbyrpyblxwtjpiybyrwbi.o,bpoqberuswbJpqvbepuywqbrui
owtxl.iowiibuojtwpiwqabIuhbyudwibrwbtpuiwqbruibfoukwbkltbyrwbkpypsbgsle,
nwybuobwpjrbuoiypojwbruibi.mwtiyuyulobmtwxwoywqbyrwbjloi.ddpyuloblkbyrw
pjyabKuxw,bywo,bkukywwobduo.ywibmpiiwq,bpoqbiyussbyrwbi.obtwdpuowq
lgij.twqabG.ybolebpybspiybJpqvbjl.sqbiwwbyrpybuybepibowptuo byrwbwq wblk
yrwbjsl.q,bpoqblojwbp puobrwbyllfbruibmliuyulobfowwsuo bgwiuqwbyrw
pmw-dpobeuyrbruibgspqwbtwpqnbkltbyrwbdldwoybyrpybyrwbi.osu rybirl.sq
ksllqbp puo,bkltbyrwbspiybyudw,byrwbsuxuo bYptcpoabRwbipebuybiewwmuo 
islesnbpjtliibyrwbgldpbyleptqbrud,bpoqbpibuybjpdwbpbsllfblkbqwdloupjps
rpytwqbirlowbuobruibjsliw-iwy,beujfwqbwnwiabPolyrwtbuoiypoybpoqbyrw
Kspduo b lqbel.sqbrpxwbiwybyrwbiwpsblkbruibpmmtlxpsb.mlobyrwbipjtukujwa
JpqvbytwdgswqbuobpoyujumpyuloabRwbtpuiwqbyrwbfoukwbpbytukswbru rwt,brui
d.ijswibywoiwqbkltbyrwbqleoeptqbms.o w,bpoqbyrwobyrwbiuswojwblkbyrw
v.o swbepibgtlfwobgnbpbeldpo’ibxlujw,btpuiwqbpsdliybylbpbijtwpda

“Jpqv!”bjpdwbyrwbiuo swbeltq,bg.ybeuyrbpssbyrwbi.qqwoowiibpoqbpssbyrw
i.tmtuiuo bwkkwjyblkbsu ryouo bktldbpbjswptbifna

Ruibfoukwbiyussbmluiwqblobru r,byrwbRu rbMtuwiyby.towqbuobyrwbqutwjyulo
lkbyrwbuoywtt.myulobylbiwwbpybyrwbjswptuo ’ibwq wbyrwbku .twblkbSp,byrw
Ru rbMtuwiywii,bpoqbgwruoqbrwtbQllyrbpoqbpbijltwblkbyrwbswiiwtbmtuwiyia

“Erpybdwpoibyrui,bJpqv?”bqwdpoqwqbSp,bpo tusn,bpmmtlpjruo btpmuqsn
yleptqbrudbpjtliibyrwbjswptuo abI.sswosnbyrwbRu rbMtuwiybtliwa

“YrwbKspduo b lqbqwdpoqwqbyrwbsukwblkbyruib.ogwsuwxwt,”brwbjtuwqa

“Imwpfwtblkbsuwi,”btwyltywqbSp,b“yrwbKspduo b lqbjldd.oujpywibeuyrbdwo
yrtl. rbyrwbsumiblkbruibRu rbMtuwiywiiblosnabYllblkywobpstwpqnbrpxwbnl.
pyywdmywqbylbyreptybyrwbeussblkbnl.tbz.wwoabFole,byrwo,bJpqv,byrpybyrw
mlewtblkbsukwbpoqbqwpyrberujrbnl.tbz.wwobrlsqibuibpibmlywoyblxwtbnl.bpi
polyrwtabQ.tuo byrwbslo bp wibyrpybLmptbrpibwoq.twq,bl.tbsw woqibywssb.i
yrpybdltwbyrpoblowbRu rbMtuwiybrpibgwwoblkkwtwqb.mlobyrwbpsyptbylbyrw
Kspduo b lqabPoqbuybuibolyb.osufwsnbyrpybnwybpolyrwtbdpnb lbyrwbepnblk
yrwbmtwi.dmy.l.iabJ.tg,byrwtwkltw,bnl.tbxpouynbpoqbnl.tbs.iybkltbmlewt,
swiybyrwnbmtlxwbnl.tb.oqluo a”

Jpqvbirwpyrwqbruibfoukwbpoqby.towqbi.sswosnbpepn,bjpiyuo bpbxwoldl.i
sllfbpybQllyr,bylberldbrwbwxuqwoysnbpyytug.ywqbruib.oqluo abYrpybrwbepi
ywdmltptusnbpgpirwqbgnbyrwbmtwiwojwblkbruibz.wwobepibwxuqwoy,bg.ybyl
yrliwberlbfowebJpqvbyrwtwbepibsuyyswbql.gybyrpybrwbiyussbrptgltwqbrui
uoywoyulobylbqwimpyjrbyrwbpmw-dpo,bpoqbukbyrwblmmlty.ouynbwxwtbmtwiwoywq
uyiwskbyrpybrwbel.sqbqlbil,bkltbJpqvbrpqbpbiytlo bklssleuo bpdlo byrw
mwlmswbpoqbmtuwiyiblkbLmptabYrwtwbewtwbdponberlbql.gywqbyrpybSpbel.sq
wxwtbqptwbylbuoj.tbyrwbquimswpi.twbpoqbpo wtblkbilbudmltypoybpbmltyulo
lkbrwtbklsslewtibpibylbjp.iwbyrwbqwpyrbltbqw tpqpyuloblkbyrwutbru r
mtuwiy,berlbljj.muwqbruiblkkujwbgnbxuty.wblkbspeibpoqbj.iyldibilblsq
yrpybyrwutbltu uobrpqbgwwobslo bsliybuobpoyuz.uyna

Kltbnwptibirwbrpqbkl.oqbkutiyblowbwhj.iwbpoqbyrwobpolyrwtbylbqwspnbyrw
jwtwdlouwibyrpybel.sqb.ouywbrwtbuobdpttup wbylbyrwbRu rbMtuwiyabIrwbrpq
k.tyrwtbptl.iwqbyrwbpoyp louidblkbrwtbmwlmswbgnbmpsmpgswbmtllkiblkbrwt
uokpy.pyulobkltbyrwbpmw-dpo,bpoqbwxwobyrl. rbpybspiybirwbrpqbgwwo
jldmwsswqbylbdpywbeuyrbJpqv,birwbrpqbdpqwbolbwkkltyberpyilwxwtbyl
jlojwpsbrwtbrpytwqbpoqbslpyruo bkltbyrwbdpoabRlebd.jrbk.tyrwtbirwbjl.sq
 lbeuyrbudm.ouynbepibpbz.wiyulobyrpyblkywobytl.gswqbyrliwberliwbmliuyulo
uobLmptbqwmwoqwqb.mlobrwtbkpxlt,bpoq,bfoleuo bpssbyrwiwbjloquyuloibpibrw
quq,buybepibolybiytpo wbyrpybJpqvbirl.sqbwoywtypuobytwpilopgswbyrl. ryi
yleptqbruibz.wwoabSwp .wqbeuyrbrudbuobruibytwpjrwtnbepibLpr,bpbmtuwiywii
erlbpimutwqbylbyrwbmlewtbpoqblkkujwiblkbSpabUkbSpbjl.sqbgwbqlowbpepn
euyr,byrwobJpqvbrpqbyrwbuoks.wojwbylbiwwbyrpybLprbgwjpdwbRu rbMtuwiywiia
RwbpsilbrpqbLpr’ibmtlduiwbylbdpywbeuyrbrudbpoqbmwtduybrudbylbt.swbpi
fuo ,bg.ybpibnwybglyrbewtwbgl.oqbgnbyrwbi.mwtiyuyul.ibkwptblkbyrwut
kspduo bqwuyn,bpoqbgwjp.iwblkbyruibkpjybepibyrwbsukwblkbSpbywdmltptusn
dpqwbipkwabUybtwz.utwq,brlewxwt,bg.ybyrwbisu rywiybimptfbylbu ouywbyrw
kspdwiblkbytwpilobyrpybewtwbidlsqwtuo bpgl.ybrwta

Ilbkpt,birwbepibewssbeuyruobrwtbtu ryibuobkltguqquo byrwbipjtukujwblk
YptcpobgnbyrwbRu rbMtuwiyabG.ybrwtbkpyw,brwtbxwtnbsukw,bmwtrpmi,
qwmwoqwqb.mlobrwtbk.y.twbytwpydwoyblkbyrwbmtuilowtabIrl.sqbirwbimptw
rud,birl.sqbirwbwxuqwojwbuobponbepnbpbtwy.toblkbyrwb twpybslxwbirwbrpq
lojwbpsdliybm.gsujsnbpxlewqbkltbrud,buybepibsufwsnbyrpybrwtbqlldbel.sq
gwbiwpswqabUybepibwxwobz.wiyulopgswberwyrwtbltbolybirwbdu rybeuyr
udm.ouynbimptwbruibsukwbpoqbiwybrudbpybsugwtyna

Jpqvbpoqbyrwblyrwtibepyjrwqbrwtbjsliwsnbolebpibirwbjtliiwqbylbyrwbiuqw
lkbYptcpoabIypoquo byrwtwbiuswoysnbkltbiwxwtpsbdldwoyibirwbsllfwqbqleo
.mlobruda

“Rwbuibpstwpqnbqwpq?”birwbpifwqa

“RwbepibolybqwpqberwobJpqvbiwoyb.ibpepn,”bxls.oywwtwqbQllyrab“Ukbrwbui
qwpqbolebuybuibgwjp.iwbJpqvbfusswqbrudberuswbewbewtwbpepna”

“Ubquqbolybfussbrud,”bipuqbJpqvab“Yrpybtwdpuoi,bpibSp,bl.tbz.wwo,brpi
ylsqbnl.,bkltbrwtbylbqlabYrwbwnwblkbyrwbKspduo b lqbsllfibqleob.mlobnl.,
Ru rbMtuwiywiiblkbLmptabYrwbfoukwbuibpybnl.tbrum,byrwbipjtukujwbsuwi
gwkltwbnl.a”

Spbu oltwqbyrwbdpo’ibeltqibpoqby.towqbyleptqbQllyrab“Ukbrwbiyussbsuxwi,”
irwbipuq,b“jloiyt.jybpbsuyywtbpoqbgwptbrudbgpjfbylbLmpta”

Yr.i,blojwbdltw,bjpdwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibuoylbyrwbpojuwoybjlsloupsbjuyn
lkbyrwbPyspoyupoiabYrwbwkkwjyiblkbyrwboptjlyujbyrpybFtpifubrpq
pqduouiywtwqbylbrudbquqbolybewptblkkbkltbdponbrl.tiabUybepibou ryberwo
rwblmwowqbruibwnwi,bpoqbkltbpbdldwoybrwbepibgweusqwtwqbgnbyrwbqptfowii
poqbyrwbiuswojwbyrpybi.ttl.oqwqbrudabPssbyrpybrwbjl.sqbijwoybpybkutiy
epibyrpybrwbspnb.mlobpbmuswblkbk.tibpoqbyrpybrwbepib.ouov.twq;bkltbrw
kwsybolbmpuoabIslesnbyrwtwbgtlfwbyrtl. rbyrwbkl blkbruibqt.  wqbgtpuo
twjlsswjyuloblkbyrwbspiybdldwoybgwkltwb.ojloijul.iowiibrpqblxwtjldwbrud,
poqbmtwiwoysnbrwbtwpsucwqbyrwbytujfbyrpybrpqbgwwobmspnwqb.mlobrudabKlt
rlebslo brwbrpqbgwwob.ojloijul.ibpoqberwtwbrwbyrwobepibrwbjl.sqboly
udp uowabIslesnbrwbptliwbylbruibkwwy,bkuoquo byrpybwhjwmybkltbpbisu ry
quccuowiibrwbepibz.uywbrudiwskabJp.yul.isnbrwbkwsybptl.oqbuobyrw
qptfowii,bdlxuo beuyrbjptw,bpbrpoqbl.yiytwyjrwq,bpoqbpsepnibkwwsuo 
jptwk.ssnbeuyrbruibkwwybkltbpbiwj.twbkllyuo abPsdliybuddwqupywsnbpbiylow
epssbiylmmwqbruibmtl twii,bpoqbyruibrwbklsslewqbptl.oqbkl.tbiuqwiblk
erpybrwbillobtwpsucwqbepibpbidpssbtlldbuoberujrbyrwtwbewtwbg.ybyel
lmwouo i,bpbqlltb.mlobwpjrblkbyrwblmmliuywbiuqwiabLosnbruibiwoiwiblk
yl.jrbpoqbidwssbewtwblkbxps.wbylbrudbrwtwabYrwiwbylsqbrudblosnbpybkutiy
yrpybrwbepibudmtuilowqbuobpbi.gywttpowpobjrpdgwt,bg.ybpibyrwbwkkwjyiblk
yrwboptjlyujbquduouirwq,byrwbfwwoowiiblkbyrwbspyywtbtwy.towq,bpoqbeuyr
uyibtwy.tobyrwtwbepibgltowbuob.mlobYptcpo’ibgtpuobpobuoiuiywoy
udmtwiiuloblkbkpdusuptuynbuobjwtypuobktp tpoyblqltibyrpybudmuo wqb.mlo
ruiblskpjyltnblt poi—pbrp.oyuo bi.  wiyulobyrpybrwbrpqbfoleobyrwd
gwkltwb.oqwtbiudusptbjutj.diypojwiabMtwiwoysnbktldbpglxw,byrtl. rbwptyr
poqbdpilotn,bjpdwbyrwbirpqleblkbpob.ojpoonbijtwpd—v.iybyrwbkpuoywiy
i.  wiyuloblkbuybtwpjrwqbyrwbfwwobwptiblkbyrwbpmw-dpo,bg.ybuybepi
i.kkujuwoybylbksllqbruibduoqbeuyrbxuxuqbtwjlsswjyuloi,bpoq,bgn
piiljupyuloblkbuqwpi,bylbkuhbyrwbuqwoyuynblkbyrwbkpdusuptblqltibpgl.y
rudabRwbfowebpybspiybyrpybrwbepibuobyrwbqptfbmuybgwowpyrbLmpta

Pglxwbrud,buobrwtbjrpdgwtbuobyrwbywdmsw,bSp,byrwbRu rbMtuwiywii,byliiwq
.mlobpbiswwmswiibjl.jrabIrwbfowebpssbyllbewssbyrwbywdmwtblkbrwtbmwlmsw
poqbyrwbytwpjrwtnblkbyrwbRu rbMtuwiy,bJpqvabIrwbfowebyrwbtwsu ul.i
kpopyujuidberujrbmtldmywqbyrwblkyyudwbdpoupjpsbpjyuloiblkbrwtbgwiyups
poqbu oltpoybklsslewti,bpoqbirwb .wiiwqbyt.snbyrpybJpqvbel.sqbuokspdw
yrwdbp puoiybrwtbirl.sqbirwbkpusbyruibyudwbuobipjtukujuo byrwbpmw-dpobyl
yrwbKspduo b lqabPoqbuybepibyrwbwkkltybylbkuoqbpobwijpmwbktldbrwt
quswddpbyrpybswkybrwtbiswwmswii,bkltbuybepibolybuobyrwbrwptyblkbSpbyl
ipjtukujwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabRu rbMtuwiywiiblkbpbrlttuqbj.sy,byrl. r
irwbepi,bpoqbz.wwoblkbpbtpjwblkbrpsk-gwpiyi,bnwybirwbepibpbeldpo,byll,bp
eldpoberlbrpqbslxwqbg.yblojwbpoqb uxwobyrpybslxwbylbyrwb lqsufwbpmw-dpo
erlbepibp puobeuyruobrwtbmlewtabYeujwbgwkltwbrpqbrwbwijpmwqbrwt
ipjtukujupsbfoukw;buobyrwbkuopsbuoiypojwbslxwbrpqbpybspiybytu.dmrwqblxwt
vwpsl.inbpoqbkpopyujuid,bpoqbSp,byrwbeldpo,brpqbtwpsucwqbyrpybowxwt
p puobjl.sqbirwbmspjwbuobvwlmptqnbyrwbsukwblkbyrwbdpobirwbslxwq,brlewxwt
rlmwswiibirwbfowebyrpybslxwbylbgwa

Ylou rybirwbepibkpjwqbeuyrbpbmtlgswdbyrpybirwbkwsybpsdliybgwnloqbrwt
mlewtiblkbils.yuloabYrwbkpjybyrpybirwbepibdpywqbeuyrbJpqvbtwdlxwqbyrw
spiybxwiyu wblkbrlmwbyrpybirwbrpqbwxwtbrpqblkbgwjlduo byrwbeukwblkbyrw
pmw-dpoabNwybirwbepibolbswiibqwywtduowqbylbipxwbYptcpobukbuybewtw
mliiugswabYeujwbrpqbrwbipxwqbrwtbsukw,blojwbktldbpbdpqbmtuwiy,bpoqblojw
ktldbYpoyltbuob_d.iy_abYrwo,byll,birwbrpqb uxwobrwtbeltqbyrpyberwo
Yptcpobjpdwbp puobylbLmptbrwbjpdwbuobktuwoqirumbpoqbel.sqbgwbtwjwuxwqbuo
ktuwoqirumabG.ybyrwbuoks.wojwblkbJpqvbepib twpy,bpoqbirwbfowebyrpybyrpy
uoks.wojwbrpqbgwwobqutwjywqb.otwduyyuo snbp puoiybyrwbpmw-dpo—irwbrpq
iwwobuybuobyrwbpyyuy.qwblkbrwtbklsslewtibktldbyrwbxwtnbdldwoybyrpybyrwn
rpqbmspjwqbYptcpob.mlobpbsuyywtbylbgwptbrudbgpjfbylbLmpt—irwbrpqbiwwo
uybuobyrwbwxusb spojwibyrpybrpqbgwwobjpiybpybrwtabIllowtbltbspywtbyrwn
el.sqbqptwbqwol.ojwbrwt—pssbyrpybyrwnbowwqwqbepibildwbisu ry,bowe
whj.iw,byrpy,birwbfowe,byrwnbwp wtsnbpepuywqbuobrwtbkltyrjlduo bpyyuy.qw
yleptqbYptcpoabUybepibewssbpkywtbduqou ryberwobyrwtwbjpdwbylbrwtblowblk
yrwbmtuwiywiiwiberlbtwdpuowqbpsepnib.mlob .ptqbl.yiuqwbrwtbjrpdgwtbqllta

“Qllyrbel.sqbimwpfbeuyrbnl.,”beruimwtwqbyrwbrpoq-dpuqwoa

“Uybuibspyw,”btwmsuwqbSp,b“poqbdwobptwbolybmwtduyywqbuobyruibmptyblkbyrw
ywdmswabRlebjpdwbrwbrwtw,bpoqbern?”

“RwbipnibyrpybrwbjldwibuobyrwbiwtxujwblkbSp,berlbuibuob twpybqpo wt,”
twmsuwqbyrwb utsa

“Kwyjrbrudbrwtwbyrwo,”bipuqbSp,b“poqbpibnl.bxps.wbnl.tbsukwbiwwbyrpybnl.
ywssbolblowa”

“Ubirpssbgwbpibxlujwswiibpibyrwbiylowiblkbyrwbpsypt,”btwmsuwqbyrwb uts,
pibirwby.towqbpoqbswkybyrwbjrpdgwta

Pbdldwoybspywtbirwbtwy.towq,bgtuo uo bQllyr,berlbrpsywqbpbkwebkwwybktld
yrwbRu rbMtuwiywiibpoqbips.ywqbrwtabSpbiu opswqbylbyrwb utsberlbrpq
gtl. rybrud,bylbqwmpty,bpoqbyrwobirwby.towqbz.wiyulouo snbylbyrwbdpoa

“Imwpf,bQllyr!”birwbjlddpoqwqa

“Ewbpssbfole,”brwbipuq,b“lkbSp’ibslxwbkltbyrwbiytpo wbpmw-dpo,bpoqbuybui
olybkltbdw,bpbswiiwtbmtuwiy,bylbz.wiyulobyrwbyrl. ryibltbpjyiblkbdnbRu r
MtuwiywiiabUybuiblosnbkltbdwbylbiwtxw,bpibyrliwbel.sqbqlbgwyywtbylbiwtxw
erlbolebmslybp puoiybnl.a”

“Erpybqlbnl.bdwpo,bQllyr?bErlbmslyibp puoiybdw?”

“Wxwobpybyruibduo.ywbptwbJpqvbpoqbLprbpoqbiwxwtpsblkbyrwbmtuwiyibpoq
mtuwiywiiwibjpttnuo bl.ybpbmspobkltbnl.tb.oqluo abYrwnbptwbiwyyuo bimuwi
ylbepyjrbnl.,bfoleuo byrpybnl.bel.sqbsugwtpywbyrwbpmw-dpo,bgwjp.iwbyrwtw
eussbjldwbylbnl.blowberlbeussbywssbnl.byrpybylbmwtduybrudbylbwijpmwbeuss
gwbyrwbwpiuwiybils.yuloblkbnl.tbmtlgswdabYruiblowbeussbgwbiwoybgnbJpqv,
poqbyrwobyrliwberlbepyjrbnl.beussbtwmltybylbyrwbmwlmswbpoqbylbyrw
mtuwiyibyrpybyrwnbrpxwbiwwobnl.bswpqbyrwbipjtukujwbylbsugwtynabG.ybwxwo
yrpybeussbpxpusbnl.bolyruo ,bkltbJpqvbpoqbLprbpoqbyrwblyrwtibrpxwbmspjwq
.mlobyrwbytpusbktldbLmptbdponbdwobuobruquo ,berlbeussbkpssb.mlobyrw
pmw-dpobpoqbispnbrudbgwkltwbyrwbKspduo b lqbrpibqwijwoqwqbyeujwbuoylbyrw
ewiywtobkltwiyabUobg.yblowbepnblosnbdpnbnl.bipxwbnl.tiwsk,bSpblkbLmpta”

“Poqberpybuibyrpybepn?”birwbpifwqa

“Nl.bd.iy,beuyrbnl.tbleobrpoqi,b.mlobyrwbpsyptblkbl.tbywdmsw,bipjtukujw
yrwbpmw-dpobylbyrwbKspduo b lqa”




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbXUUU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbDNIYWTNbLKbYRWbMPIY


SPbrpqbgtwpfkpiywqbyrwbklssleuo bdltouo ,bpoqbrpqbiwoybQllyrbeuyrbkllq
kltbYptcpo,berwobyrwtwbjpdwbylbrwtbpbnl.o bmtuwiywii,berlbepibyrwbiuiywt
lkbLprabWxwobgwkltwbyrwb utsbrpqbimlfwobSpbfowebyrpybirwbepibpobwduiiptn
ktldbJpqv,bpoqbyrpybyrwbytwpjrwtnblkberujrbQllyrbrpqbeptowqbrwtbepi
pstwpqnb.oqwtbepnabYrwb utsbepibussbpybwpiwbpoqbz.uywbwxuqwoysn
ktu rywowq,bkltbirwbepibnl.o bpoqbrwsqbuobru rbtwxwtwbyrwbz.wwoberldbirw
rpqb llqbtwpilobylbfolebepibpss-mlewtk.s,bpoqberlbdu rybwxwobuoksujy
qwpyrb.mlobrwtbukbirwbilbeuirwqabSp,berlbrpqbpstwpqnbqwywtduowqb.mlobp
mspoblkbpjyulobyrpybirwbfowebel.sqbgwbdliybwdgpttpiiuo bylbJpqvbpoqbrui
jloimutpylti,bepuywqbuobiuswojwbkltbyrwb utsbylbimwpfabG.ybuybepibildw
yudwbgwkltwbyrwb utsbjl.sqbd.iywtb.mbrwtbjl.tp wbltbkuoqbpbmtlmwt
lmwouo abUoiywpq,birwbimlfwblkbdponbyruo ibyrpybrpqbolbgwptuo 
erpyilwxwtb.mlobrwtbi.gvwjy,bpoqbSp,byrwbRu rbMtuwiywii,bepibpd.iwqbpy
rwtbquijldkuy.twa

“Uybuibolyblkywo,”bipuqbSp,b“yrpybyrwbiuiywtblkbLprbjldwibylbyrw
pmptydwoyiblkbrwtbz.wwob.oswiibirwbuibguqqwoabUbpdb spqbylbiwwbyrpybirw
pybspiybtwpsucwibyrwbiwtxujwbyrpybirwblewibylbyrwbRu rbMtuwiywiiblkbyrw
Kspduo b lqa”

“Ubjldw,”bipuqbyrwb uts,bpybspiy,bimwpfuo bpsdliybpiblowberlbrpibswptowq
pbmpty,b“ylbywssbnl.byrpybUbrpxwblxwtrwptqbyrpyberujrbdpnbgwblkbuoywtwiy
ylbnl.,bpoqberujrbUbpdbi.twbyrpybnl.beussbgwb spqbylbrwpta”

“Nwi?”buoywttl pywqbSp,btpuiuo brwtbptjrwqbwnwgtleia

“UblxwtrwptqbJpqvbimwpfuo beuyrbyrwbswiiwtbmtuwiyi,”byrwb utsbjloyuo.wq,
“poqbUbquiyuojysnbrwptqbrudbipnbyrpybrwbel.sqbgwb spqbukbyrwbpmw-dpo
wijpmwq,bpibyrpybel.sqbtwsuwxwbnl.,bpoqbJpqvbpibewss,blkbd.jr
wdgpttpiidwoyabUbyrl. rybyrpybSp,byrwbz.wwo,bel.sqbgwb spqbylbfolebyrui,
kltbuybuibfoleobgnbpssblkb.ibyrpybSpbrpibmtlduiwqbktuwoqirumbylbyrw
pmw-dpo,bpoqbyrwtwkltwbqlwibolybeuirbylbipjtukujwbrudb.mlobyrwbpsyptblk
yrwbKspduo b lqa”

“Dnbq.ynbuibmspuobylbdw,”btwmsuwqbSp,buobpbrp. rynbxlujw,b“poqbUbqlboly
owwqbJpqvboltbponbrpoq-dpuqwobylbuoywtmtwybuybylbdwabUbpsilbfolebyrw
mtwtl pyuxwiblkbpbRu rbMtuwiywii,bpoqbyrpybyrwbtu ryblkbipjtukujwbuiblow
lkbyrwdabKltbyruibtwpilobUbmtwxwoywqbJpqvbktldbipjtukujuo byrwbiytpo wta
Olblyrwtbrpoqbyrpobduowbdpnblkkwtbruibrwpty’ibgsllqbylbyrwbKspduo b lq,
poqb.mlobyrwbyrutqbqpnbrwbirpssbquwbgwowpyrbdnbfoukwb.mlobyrwbpsyptblk
l.tbywdmswa”

Yrwbwkkwjyblkbyrwiwbeltqib.mlobyrwb utsbewtwbmtwjuiwsnberpybSpbrpq
poyujumpywqabIrwbipebquipmmluoydwoybpoqbjrp tuobetuyywob.mlobyrwbkpjwblk
Jpqv’ibdwiiwo wt,berlbolebrpqbolbpoiewt,bkltbrwtbuoiyt.jyuloibrpqboly
kltwiwwobyruibpyyuy.qwb.mlobyrwbmptyblkbSpabMtwiwoysnbyrwb utsbkl.oq
ildwbspdwbmtwywhyb.mloberujrbylbeuyrqtpe,bpoqberwobirwbrpqbswkybyrw
mtwiwojwblkbyrwbRu rbMtuwiywii,bSpbjl.sqbijptjwsnbtwiytpuobpbiduswabIrw
rpqbolbuoywoyuloblkbipjtukujuo bYptcpo,bg.ybyrui,blkbjl.tiw,byrwbiuiywt
lkbLprbquqbolybfoleabIlbirwbtwy.towqbylbJpqvbpoqbtwmwpywqbpibowptsnbpi
irwbjl.sqbtwjpssbuy,bpssbyrpybSpbrpqbipuqbylbrwtabYrwbRu rbMtuwiybepi
d.jrbjrp tuowq,bkltbruibmspobrpqbgwwobole,bolybilbd.jrbylbwojldmpiibyrw
qwiyt.jyuloblkbYptcpobpibylbswpqbSpbuoylbyrwbjldduiiuloblkbpobpjybyrpy
el.sqbgtuo b.mlobrwtbyrwbetpyrblkbyrwbmtuwiyibpoqbmwlmswblkbLmpt,berl,
mtlmwtsnbuoiyu pywq,bel.sqbqwdpoqbrwtbsukwbuobwhmupyuloabLpr,berlbepi
mtwiwoyberwobrwtbiuiywtbtwy.towq,bguybrwtbsumi,bkltb twpybepibrwt
quipmmluoydwoyabOwxwtbgwkltwbrpqbirwbiwwobilbjsliwbpybrpoqbyrw
slo wq-kltbmliiugusuynblkbgwjlduo bRu rbMtuwiywiiabKltbiwxwtpsbduo.ywi
irwbmpjwqbylbpoqbktlbuobqwwmbyrl. ry,bpoqbyrwo,bi.qqwosn,birwbrpsywq
gwkltwbJpqva

“Spbslxwibyruibpmw-dpo,”birwbipuq,b“poqbwxwobyrl. rbirwbdpnbipjtukujw
rud,buybuiblosnbgwjp.iwblkbkwptblkbrwtbmwlmswabIrwbslxwibrud
iyuss—slxwibrudbgwyywt,bJpqv,byrpobirwbrpibwxwtbslxwqbnl.abYrwbpmw-dpo
foleibuy,bpoqbyt.iyibrwt,bpoqbgwjp.iwbrwbfoleibuybyrwtwbuibpbepna
Suiywo,bJpqv,bylbLprabEwbeussbiwoqblowbylbyrwbpmw-dpoberlbirpssbywssbrud
yrpybirwbjldwibktldbSp,bpoqbyrpybSpbrpibuoiyt.jywqbrwtbylbswpqbrudbl.y
lkbLmptbpoqbiwybrudbktwwabYruiblowbirpssbswpqbrudbuoylbl.tbpdg.irbpoq
erwobrwbuibfusswqbewbirpssb l,bdponblkb.i,bgwkltwbSp,bpoqbpjj.iwbrwtblk
ytwpjrwtnabYrwblowberlbswqbyrwbpmw-dpobktldbLmptbirpssbipnbyrpybSp
ltqwtwqbrwtbylbqlbuy,bpoqbyrwbmtuwiyibpoqbyrwbmwlmswbeussbgwbxwtnbpo tn,
poqbyrwobnl.birpssbqwdpoqbyrwbsukwblkbSpabUybeussbgwbxwtnbwpinbpoqbew
irpssbgwbtuqblkbglyrblkbyrwda”

“ llq!”bwhjspudwqbJpqvab“Ewbirpssbqlbyruibyruo bpybqpeob.mlobyrwbdlttle,
poqbgwkltwbyrwbKspduo b lqb lwibylbruibtwiybpybou rybrwbirpssbsllfb.mlo
pbowebRu rbMtuwiywiibuobLmpta”

Yrpybou rybYptcpobepibptl.iwqbktldbruibiswwmbgnbpbil.oqbpyblowblkbyrw
qlltiblkbruibmtuilobjwssabRwbrwptqbyrwbglsybisummwqbgpjfbpoqbyrwbqllt
jtwpfbislesnblmwob.mlobuyibpojuwoybruo wiabUobyrwbuofnbqptfowiibrwbjl.sq
quijwtobolbmtwiwojw,bg.ybrwbrwptqbyrwbiywpsyrnbdlxwdwoyblkbipoqpswqbkwwy
.mlobyrwbjlojtwywbksllt,bpoqbyrwo,bl.yblkbyrwbqptfowii,bruibopdwbepi
eruimwtwq,buobpbeldpo’ibxlujwa

“Ubpdbrwtw,”brwbtwmsuwqab“Erlbptwbnl.bpoqberpybqlbnl.bepoyblkbYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwi?”

“Nl.tbsukwbuibuobqpo wt,”btwmsuwqbyrwbxlujwab“Jldw,bklsslebdwa”

“Erlbiwoybnl.?”bqwdpoqwqbyrwbpmw-dpo,bruibiwoiuyuxwboliytusibiwptjruo 
kltbpbjs.wbylbyrwbuqwoyuynblkbyrwboljy.topsbxuiuylt,bg.ybilbrwpxusnbepi
yrwbputbspqwobeuyrbyrwbm.o woyblqltblkbildwbrwpxnbmwtk.dwbeuyrberujrbyrw
glqnblkbyrwbeldpobiwwdwqbylbrpxwbgwwobpoluoywq,byrpybyrwtwbepibol
quiyuo .uiruo bjs.wbgnberujrbrwbdu rybv.q wbpibylberwyrwtbirwbepiblowblk
yrwbmtuwiywiiwibrwbrpqbfoleob.mlobyrwbljjpiuloblkbruibkltdwtbxuiuyibyl
Lmpt,bltbpobwoyutwbiytpo wtbylbruda

“Spbiwoybdw,”birwbipuq,b“ylbswpqbnl.bktldbyrwbmuyiblkbLmptbylbyrw
ktwwqldblkbyrwbl.yiuqwbeltsqbgwnloqbyrwbjuyn’ibepssia”b tlmuo buobyrw
qptfowiibirwbkuopssnbkl.oqbrudab“Rwtwbptwbnl.tbewpmloi,”birwbipuq,
rpoquo byrwdbylbrud,bpoqbyrwobirwbyllfbruibrpoq,by.towqbpoqbswqbrudbktld
yrwbq.o wlo,byrtl. rbpbslo ,beuoquo ,bpoqbwz.pssnbgspjfbjlttuqlt,bqleo
ksu ryiblkbp w-lsqbjlojtwywbiywmi,byrtl. rbmpiip wibpoqbjlttuqlti,
lmwouo bpoqbjsliuo bqlltbpkywtbqlltbyrpybjtwpfwqbpoqb tlpowqb.mlobt.iyn
ruo wiabRlebkptbyrwnbytpxwswqbyr.i,bpoqbuoberpybqutwjyulo,bYptcpobjl.sq
olyb .wiiabRwbrpqb swpowqbwol. rbktldbQllyr,berwobyrwbspyywtbgtl. rybrud
ruibkllq,bylbgwsuwxwbyrpybuobSpbrwbrpqbpbktuwoqberlbel.sqbpuqbrud,bklt
QllyrbrpqbylsqbrudbyrpybirwbrpqbipxwqbrudbktldbJpqvberwobyrwbspyywtbrpq
quijlxwtwqbrudb.ojloijul.ibuobyrwbqwiwtywqbgldpblkbyrwbW.tlmwpoiberlbrpq
qt.  wqbpoqbswkybrudabPoqbil,byrwbeldpobrpxuo bipuqbyrpybirwbjpdwbktld
Sp,bYptcpobklsslewqbrwtbeussuo snabRwbjl.sqbolybg.ybtwjpssbVpow’i
mtlmrwjnblkbyrwbwxusibyrpybrwbdu rybwhmwjybylbgwkpssbrudbirl.sqbrw
mwtiuiybuob.oqwtypfuo byruibyrutqbytumbylbLmpt,bpoqbrwbeloqwtwqbuk,
pkywtbpss,bruibeukwbepibtu ry,byrpybrwbirl.sqbowxwtbp puobwijpmwbktld
yrwbylusiblkbyrwbkpopyujpsbmtuwiyiblkbyrwbKspduo b lqabRwbrpqboly,blk
jl.tiw,bwhmwjywqbylbwoywtbLmpt,bg.ybyrwtwbiwwdwqbylbrpo blxwtbyrw
pjj.tiwqbjuynbpb .ptqupobqwdlobyrpybyrtwpywowqbyrwbsukwblkberlilwxwt
qptwqbpmmtlpjrbyrwbkltguqqwobimlybltbetwiybktldbyrwbklt lyywobytwpi.tw
xp.syibpbmltyuloblkbyrwutb twpybrlptqa

Kltbdltwbyrpobpobrl.tbruib .uqwbswqbrudbyrtl. rbyrwbIyn upobqptfowiiblk
.oqwt tl.oqbmpiip wi,b.oyus,bpijwoquo bpbksu ryblkbiywmibyrwnbwdwt wq
uoylbyrwbjwoywtblkbpbjs.dmblkbg.irwi,byrtl. rberujrbyrwbmpswbsu ryblk
yrwbdllobepibgptwsnbquijwtougswabYrwbktwirbput,brlewxwt,bylsqbrudbyrpy
yrwnbrpqbtwpjrwqbyrwbi.tkpjwblkbyrwb tl.oq,bpoqbolebyrwbeldpo,berlbrpq
olybimlfwobpbeltqbiuojwbirwbrpqbswqbrudbktldbruibjwss,bjloyuo.wqblobuo
iuswojw,bklssleuo bpbqwxul.ibytpusbyrpybel.oqbruyrwtbpoqbyruyrwtbuobpo
wttpyujbkpirulobyrtl. rbpbrwpxnbkltwiybjrlfwqbeuyrb.oqwt tleyr,bpoq
psepnib.meptqa

Ktldbyrwbsljpyuloblkbyrwbiyptibpoqbdllo,bpoqbktldbyrwb.meptqbytwoqblk
yrwbytpus,bYptcpobfowebyrpybrwbepibgwuo bswqbuoylbyrwbdl.oypuoibyrpybsuw
gwruoqbLmpt—pbmspjwbrwbrpqbowxwtbyrl. ryblkbxuiuyuo ,biuojwbyrwbjl.oytn
pmmwptwqbtl. rbpoqb.ouoxuyuo ,bpoqbolybsufwsnbylbrptgltb pdwbi.jrbpi
Yptcpobjptwqbdliybylbr.oyabRwbepibpstwpqnbi.tmtuiwqbgnbyrwbopy.twblkbyrw
xw wypyulo,bkltbrwbrpqbyrl. rybyrwbrussibgpttwobwhjwmybkltbiy.oywqbytwwi
poqbijtp  nbg.irabPibyrwnbjloyuo.wqb.mlobyrwutbepn,bjsudguo bwxwt
.meptq,byrwbdllobtliwbru rwtbuobyrwbrwpxwoi,b.oyusbuyibilkybsu ry
twxwpswqbdltwbjswptsnbylbyrwbfwwobwnwiblkbyrwbpmw-dpobyrwbylml tpmrnblk
yrwbjl.oytnbyrwnbewtwbytpxwtiuo ,bpoqbyrwobuybepibyrpybrwbipebyrwnbewtw
pijwoquo bpbopttle,byrujfsnbellqwqb lt w,bpoqbrwb.oqwtiyllqbernbyrw
rwpxnbxw wypyulobrpqbgwwobuoxuiugswbktldbyrwbmspuobgwkltwbLmptabRudiwsk
opy.tpssnb.ojldd.oujpyuxw,byrwbeldpo’ibiuswojwbdpqwbolbmptyuj.spt
udmtwiiulob.mlobYptcpoabRpqbrwbrpqbponyruo bylbipnbrwbirl.sqbrpxwbipuq
uy,bpoqbsufweuiwbrwbpii.dwqbyrpybyrwtwbepibolbowjwiiuynbkltbrwtbimwpfuo 
.oswiibyrwtwbepibildwb llqbtwpilobkltbimwpfuo ,bkltbyrliwberlbytpxwsbkpt
poqbkpiybrpxwbolbgtwpyrbylbepiywb.mlobjloxwtipyuloa

Yrwbwpiywtobiyptibewtwbkpquo bpybyrwbkutiybruoyblkbjlduo bqpeoberwobyrw
yelbijtpdgswqb.mbpbmtwjumuyl.ibgpofbyrpybkltdwqbyrwb.mmwtbwoqblkbyrw
tpxuow,bpoqbjpdwbl.yb.mlobjldmptpyuxwsnbswxwsb tl.oqabPibyrwnbpqxpojwq
yrwbifnbsu rywowq,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbyrwbeldpobrpsywqbpybyrwbwq wblkbp
qwjsuxuyn,bpoqbpibyrwbqpnbgtlfwbYptcpobipebgwslebrudbpbellqwqbgpiuobuo
yrwbrwptyblkbyrwbdl.oypuo,bpoq,birleuo byrtl. rbyrwbytwwibpyberpy
pmmwptwqbylbgwbildwbyelbltbyrtwwbduswibquiypoy,byrwbl.ysuowiblkbp
g.usquo byrpyb suiywowqbpoqbimptfswqbpoqbijuoyusspywqbuobyrwbsu ryblk
yrwbowebi.oabYrwobrwby.towqbpoqbsllfwqbpybruibjldmpoulo,bpoqbi.tmtuiw
poqbjloiywtopyulobewtwbetuyb.mlobruibkpjw,bkltbiypoquo bgwkltwbrudbepi
Sp,byrwbRu rbMtuwiywiiblkbLmpta

“Nl.?”brwbwhjspudwqab“OlebuoqwwqbeussbJpqvbrpxwbyrwbwhj.iwbyrpybQllyr
ipuqbrwbil. rybylbm.ybnl.bl.yblkbyrwbepna”

“Rwbeussbowxwtbrpxwbyrwblmmlty.ouynbylbm.ybdwbl.yblkbyrwbepn,”btwmsuwq
Sp,b“kltbUbirpssbowxwtbtwy.tobylbLmpta”

“Owxwtbtwy.tobylbLmpt!”brwbwhjspudwq,b“yrwoberwtwbptwbnl.b luo ?bErwtw
jpobnl.b l?”

“Ubpdb luo beuyrbnl.,”birwbtwmsuwqab“Ubqlbolybpifbyrpybnl.bslxwbdwabU
losnbpifbyrpybnl.bypfwbdwbpepnbktldbLmptbpoqbktldbyrwbwowduwiberlbel.sq
ispnbdwabYrwtwbepibolblyrwtbepnabDpo.,byrwbdlofwn,blxwtrwptqbyrwd
mslyyuo ,bpoqbrwbjpdwbylbdwbpoqbylsqbdwbpssbyrpybyrwnbel.sqbqlabErwyrwt
Ubipxwqbnl.bltbipjtukujwqbnl.,buybrpqbpssbgwwobyrwbipdwbeuyrbdwabYrwn
ewtwbqwywtduowqbylbqlbpepnbeuyrbdw,byrpybLprbdu rybgwbRu rbMtuwiywiibpoq
Jpqvbfuo blkbLmptabG.ybUbirl.sqbolybrpxwbipjtukujwqbnl.,bYptcpo,b.oqwt
ponbjutj.diypojwi,bpoqbyrui,byrwo,biwwdwqbyrwblosnbepnbuoberujrbewbdu ry
glyrbgwbipxwqabEwbjl.sqbolyb lbylbyrwboltyrbltbyrwbewiybpjtliibyrwbmspuo
lkbLmptbkltbyrwtwbJpqvbrpibmspjwqbepttultibuobpdg.irbylbepnspnbnl.,bpoq
yrl. rbnl.bgwbYptcpobpoqbpbdu rynbku rywt,byrwnbel.sqblxwterwsdbnl.bgn
yrwutbxwtnbo.dgwtibpoqbispnbnl.a”

“G.yberwtwbptwbnl.bswpquo bdw?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Ubrpxwbjrliwobyrwbswiiwtblkbyelbwxusi;buobyruibqutwjyulobsuwibpo
.ofoleobjl.oytn,bkusswqbkltb.ibLmptupoibeuyrbsw woqiblkb tudbdloiywti
poqbiytpo wbmwlmswabOwxwtbrpibpobLmptupobxwoy.twqbrwtwbpoqbtwy.towq
p puobylbLmptabG.ybukbyrwtwbsuxwibuobpssbyrwbeltsqbpbjtwpy.twberlbjl.sq
euobyrtl. rbyruib.ofoleobxpsswn,buybgwbnl.,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwia”

“G.ybukbnl.bfolebolyruo blkbyruibjl.oytn,bltbuyibuorpguypoyi,”bqwdpoqwq
Yptcpo,b“rlebuibuybyrpybnl.bilbewssbfolebyrwbytpusbyrpybswpqibylbuy?”

“Ewbewssbfolebyrwbytpusbylbyrwbi.dduy,bg.ybyrpybuibpibkptbpibUbrpxwbwxwt
gwwobgwkltwabYrwb twpybpmwibpoqbyrwbsuloib.iwbyruibytpusberwobyrwnbjldw
qleobuoylbLmptabYrwbsuloi,blkbjl.tiw,bjpoolybywssb.iberwtwbuybswpqi,bpoq
yrwb twpybpmwibeussboly,bkltb.i.pssnbewbptwbpybeptbeuyrbyrwdabPslo byrui
ytpusbyrwnbjldwbqleobuoylbLmptbylbiywpsbl.tbmwlmsw,bpoqb.mlobyruibytpus
ewbpepuybylbjpmy.twbyrwd,bkltblkywobewblkkwtbpb twpybpmwbuobipjtukujwbyl
yrwbKspduo b lq,bltbtpyrwtbyrpybepibl.tbkltdwtbj.iyld,bg.ybkltbdpon
nwptibyrwnbrpxwbgwwobyllbeptnbkltb.i,byrwbylssbgwuo b.mlobyrwblyrwt
iuqw,byrl. rbewbqlbolybfolebkltberpybm.tmliwbyrwnbiywpsbl.tbmwlmsw,
.oswiibuybgwbyrpybyrwnbwpybyrwdabYrwnbptwbpbxwtnbmlewtk.sbtpjw,biypoquo 
ru rwtbyrpobGls pou,byrwb ltussp,bpoqbuokuouywsnbdltwbj.oouo ,bklt,bpi
yrwtwbuibpmwbgsllqbuobl.tbxwuoi,bilbuibyrwtwbr.dpobgsllqbuobyrwbxwuoiblk
yrwiwb twpybpmwibyrpybqewssbuobyrwbxpsswnbpglxwbLmpta”

“Ernbuibuy,bSp,byrpybewbd.iybmpiibyrtl. rbyruibxpsswnbuobltqwtbylbwijpmw
ktldbLmpt?bYrwtwbd.iybgwbildwblyrwtbepna”

“Yrwtwbuibolblyrwtbepn,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”birwbtwmsuwqab“Yrwbpxwo.wi
pjtliibyrwbxpsswnbptwb .ptqwqbgnbJpqv’ibmwlmswabL.tblosnbjrpojwblk
wijpmwbsuwibuobyruibqutwjyulo,bpoqbUbrpxwbgtl. rybnl.bpslo byrwblosn
ytpusbyrpybmuwtjwibyrwbmtwjumuyl.ibjsukkibyrpyb .ptqbLmptb.mlobyrw
il.yrabPjtliibltbptl.oqbyruibxpsswnbewbd.iyb lbuobpobpyywdmybylbkuoqbpo
pxwo.wbpjtliibyrwbdl.oypuobpoqbqleob.mlobyrwblyrwtbiuqwa”

Yrwbpmw-dpobiyllqb pcuo bqleobuoylbyrwbellqwqbgpiuobgwslebyrwd,bruibduoq
ljj.muwqbeuyrbyrwbmtlgswdiblkbyrwbdldwoyabRpqbrwbgwwobpslowbrwbel.sqboly
rpxwbjldwbyruibepn,bkltbrwbepibi.kkujuwoysnbjlokuqwoyblkbruibleobmtlewii
ylbgwsuwxwbyrpybrwbdu rybwpiusnbrpxwbjtliiwqbyrwbxpsswnblkbLmptbuo
jldmptpyuxwbipkwyn,btw ptqswiiblkbJpqv’ibmspoibylbyrwbjloytptnabG.ybrw
epibolybpslowabRwbrpqbolebylbyruofblkbSp,bpoqbrwbtwpsucwqbyrpybuobrwt
wkkltyibylbipxwbrudbirwbrpqbmspjwqbrudb.oqwtbpbdltpsblgsu pyuloberujrbrw
du rybolybquitw ptqa

Ylbifutybyrwbgpiuo,bfwwmuo bpibkptbpibmliiugswbktldbyrwbg.usquo ,berujr
rwbjl.sqbiwwbuobyrwbquiypojw,biwwdwqbyrwbeuiwiybjl.tiwbylbm.ti.w,biuojw,
lkbjl.tiw,bruibilswbm.tmliwbepibylbkuoqbpbepnbpjtliibyrwbdl.oypuobpoq
l.yblkbyruibuorlimuypgswbjl.oytnabG.ybyrwb sudmiwibrwbjp. ryblkbyrw
wqukujw,brpskbjlojwpswqbpibuybepibpduqbyrwbklsup wblkb twpybytwwi,
muz.wqbruibj.tuliuynbylbi.jrbpobwhywoybyrpybrwbkwsybpobpsdliy
uttwiuiyugswb.t wbylbuoxwiyu pywabRwbquqbolybgwsuwxwbyrpybyrwbgpiuobepi
uorpguywqbgnblyrwtbyrpobeusqbgwpiyi,bpoqbrwbpyytug.ywqbyrwbg.usquo 
erujrbrwbipebylbyrwbrpoqueltfblkbpobwhyuojybltbqwmptywqbmwlmsw,bwuyrwt
jloywdmltpowl.ibeuyrbyrwbpojuwoybPyspoyupoiberlbrpqbg.usybLmptblt,
mwtrpmi,bg.usybgnbyrwbltu uopsbLmptupoibyrwdiwsxwi,bg.ybolebklt lyywobgn
yrwutbqwijwoqpoyiabYrwb sudmiwiberujrbrwbjp. ryblkbyrwbg.usquo 
i.  wiywqbi.jrbiucwbpoqbdp oukujwojwbpibdu rybgwslo bylbpbmpspjwa

Yrwbpmw-dpobfowebolbkwpt,byrl. rbrwbmliiwiiwqbylbpbtwpilopgswbwhywoy
yrpybjp.yuloberujrbuibuorwtwoybuobpssbeusqbgwpiyiabRwbel.sqbolybrpxw
rwiuypywqbylbmuybruibj.oouo bpoqbruibmtlewiibp puoiybyrwbslewtbltqwti,
rlewxwtbkwtljul.ibyrwnbdu rybgw,bklt,b.osufwbdpo,byrwnbjl.sqbolybgpoq
yl wyrwtbylbruib.oqluo abG.ybirl.sqbdwobwswjybylbr.oybrudbuobo.dgwtibrw
fowebyrpybpbtwpsbqpo wtbel.sqbjloktloybrud,bpoqbyrpy,buobyrwbkpjwblk
yrwutbjldguowqbiytwo yrbpoqbuoywssu wojw,bruibleobdu rybolybpxpusbruda
Yrwtwbepibsuyyswbsufwsurllq,brlewxwt,brwbtwpilowq,byrpybyrwbgpiuobepi
uorpguywqbgnbr.dpobgwuo iabQl.gyswiibjsliwtbuoxwiyu pyuloblkbyrw
g.usquo brwbipebel.sqbtwxwpsbyrpybuybepibg.ybpbqwiwtywqbt.uo,bpoqbyrpy
yrwbdliybkltduqpgswbklwibrwbel.sqbwojl.oywtbel.sqbgwbyrwb twpybpmwibpoq
yrwbsuloiabLkbowuyrwtblkbyrwiwbrpqbrwbponbkwpt;beuyrbyrwbkltdwtbuybepi
wxwobtwpilopgswbylbudp uowbyrpybrwbdu rybwiypgsuirbpdujpgswbtwspyuloia
Gwsuwxuo bpibrwbquqbyrpybrwbd.iybsllfbkltbw twiibktldbyrwbgpiuob.mlobuyi
lmmliuywbiuqw,buybepiblosnbopy.tpsbyrpybrwbirl.sqbeuirbylbjrlliwbyrw
dliybqutwjybtl.ywbpjtliibyrwbgpiuoabYrwtwkltwbruibuojsuopyuloibyl
whmsltwbyrwbxpsswnbewtwbiwjloqwqbgnbjloiuqwtpyuloiblkbimwwqbpoq
whmwquwojna

“Jldw,”brwbipuqbylbSp,bpoqbiyptywqbqleobyrwbqwjsuxuynberujrbswqbuoylbyrw
gpiuobuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbg.usquo bprwpqblkbyrwda

“Nl.bptwbolyb luo byrpybepn?”birwbjtuwqbuobpiylouirdwoya

“Ernboly?”brwbipuqab“Uybuibyrwbirltywiybepnbpjtliibyrwbxpsswn,bpoqbuobil
kptbpibUbjpobv.q wbl.tbytpusblxwtbyrwbdl.oypuoibuibdltwbsufwsnbylbsuwbuo
yrpybqutwjyulobyrpobwsiwerwtwa”

“G.ybUbpdbpktpuq,”birwbipuqab“YrwbKspduo b lqbpslowbfoleiberpybruqwl.i
qpo wtibs.tfbuobyrwbqwmyriblkbyrpybkltwiybgwsleb.ia”

“LosnbO.dpbpoqbyrwbDpo pou,”brwbipuqab“Lkbyrwiwbewbowwqbrpxwbolbkwpta”

“Nl.bkwptbolyruo ,”birwbipuq,b“g.ybUbpdblosnbpbeldpoa”

“Ewbjpobquwbg.yblojw,”btwmsuwqbYptcpo,b“poqbyrpyblojwbewbd.iybquwabYlbgw
psepnibkwptuo ,byrwo,bel.sqbolybpxwtybuy,bpoqbel.sqbdpfwbsukwbduiwtpgswa
Ewbirpssb lbyrwbirltybepn,byrwo,bpoqbmwtrpmibewbirpssbiwwbwol. rbylbdpfw
yrwbtuifbewssbeltyrberuswa”

Yrwnbklsslewqbpbewss-eltobytpusbqleoeptqbpdlo byrwbgt.ir,byrwbytwwi
uojtwpiuo buobglyrbiucwbpoqbo.dgwtbpibyrwnbpmmtlpjrwqbyrwbkslltblkbyrw
gpiuo,b.oyusbpybspiybyrwnbewtwbepsfuo bgwowpyrbyrwbklsup wblkbpb twpy
kltwiyabErpybeuoqbyrwtwbepibepibpybyrwutbgpjf,bpoqbyrwbpmw-dpo,byrl. r
rwbdlxwqbpybpbieuo uo bepsf,bepibjloiypoysnblobyrwbpswtyab.mlobyrw
rptq-mpjfwqbwptyrblkbyrwbytpusbyrwtwbewtwbkwebiu oibylbuoqujpywbyrw
opy.twblkbyrwbpoudpsibyrpybrpqbmpiiwqbylbpoqbktl,bg.ybrwtwbpoqbyrwtwbyrw
imlltblkbpbsulobepibuobwxuqwojwabIwxwtpsbyudwibYptcpobiylmmwqbpoq
suiywowq,blkywobrwbtpuiwqbruibrwpqbpoqbruibiwoiuyuxwboliytusibquspywqbpi
rwbil. rybkltberpywxwtbyrwbi.ttl.oquo bputbdu rybrlsqbkltbruda

“Ubyruofbyrwtwbptwbdwobuobyruibxpsswn,”brwbipuqbmtwiwoysnab“Kltbildw
yudwbUbrpxwbgwwobpsdliybmliuyuxwbyrpybewbptwbgwuo bepyjrwqabG.yberlwxwt
uibiypsfuo b.ibuibjswxwtbgwnloqbeltqi,bkltbuybuiblosnbyrwbgptwiy
i.  wiyuloblkbpolyrwtbmtwiwojwbyrpybUbjpobijwoya”

Spbsllfwqbpgl.ybpmmtwrwoiuxwsnbpoqbqtwebjsliwbylbruibiuqwab“Ubiwwbol
low,”birwbipuq,buobpbslebxlujwa

“OltbU,”brwbtwmsuwqab“OltbjpobUbjpyjrbponbewss-qwkuowqbijwoybimllt,bnwy
Ubpdbmliuyuxwbyrpybildwlowbuibklssleuo b.iabIldwlowbltbildwyruo byrpy
ytpusibgnbijwoy,bpoqbuibjswxwtbwol. rbylbfwwmbuyibijwoybktldb.iabUybui
dltwbyrpobsufwsnbyrpy,berpywxwtbuybui,buybuibmpiiuo byrtl. rbyrwbytwwi,
pybpbi.kkujuwoybrwu rybylbfwwmbuyibijwoybimlltbpsepnibpglxwb.iabYrwbput
uibtu rybkltbyrpy,bpoqbwxwobukbrwbewtwb.mbeuoqbktldb.ibewbdu ryboly
jpyjrbruibijwoybpybpssabEpuybrwtw,bUbeussbdpfwbi.tw,”bpoqbrwbie.o 
su rysnbuoylbyrwbgtpojrwiblkbpbowptgnbytwwbpoqbieptdwqb.meptqbeuyrbyrw
p usuynblkbDpo.,byrwbdlofwnabPbdldwoybspywtbrwbqwijwoqwqbylbyrwb uts’i
iuqwa

“Ubepibtu ry,”brwbipuq,b“yrwtwbuibildwlow,bltbildwyruo ,bolybkptblkka
G.yberwyrwtbuybuibdpobltbDpo poubUbjpoolybipn,bkltbyrwblqltbuibpbiytpo w
lowbylbdw,bi.  wiyuo bowuyrwt,bnwybglyrabG.ybyelbjpobmspnbpybyrpyb pdwa
Jldw!”bPoqbrwbie.o byrwb utsbylbruibirl.sqwtbpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbrpq
jpttuwqbrwtbru rbuoylbyrwbytwwiab“.oswiibrwbuibjsliwbwol. rbylbepyjrb.i,
erujrbUbql.gy,”brwbipuq,b“l.tbimlltbeussbgwbjpttuwqblxwtbruibrwpqbpoqbuy
eussbgwbildwbyudwbgwkltwbrwbjpobmujfbuyb.mbp puo,b.oswiibrwbuibeuiw
wol. rbylbtuiwbylbpbru rwtbswxwsa”

Spbdptxwswqbpybyrwbiytwo yrblkbyrwbpmw-dpobpibrwbjpttuwqbrwtbwpiusnbktld
ytwwbylbytww,bpoqbpybyrwbimwwqbeuyrberujrbrwbytpxwtiwqbyrwbiepnuo ,
swpknbytpusabKltbrpskbpobrl.tbrwbjloyuo.wqbloeptq,bpoqbyrwobz.uyw
i.qqwosnbrwbiylmmwq,bmluiwqbru rb.mlobpbiepnuo bgl. ra

“Sllf!”brwbipuq,bmluoyuo bprwpqbpoqbgwslebyrwdabSllfuo buobyrwbqutwjyulo
yrpybrwbuoqujpywqbyrwb utsbipebyrtl. rbyrwbswpknbklsup wbpbidpss,
rwpxusnbiyljfpqwqbjldml.oq,buoberujrbewtwbildwbqlcwobr.yibyrpy
uddwqupywsnbtuxwywqbrwtbi.tmtuiwqbpyywoyulo,boltbolbswiibepibyrw
pmw-dpo’ibj.tuliuynbmuz.wqbgnberpybrwb sudmiwqbxp .wsnbyrtl. rbyrw
klsup wabR.yibyrwnbwxuqwoysnbewtw,bg.ybyrwnbiwwdwqbylbgwbdlxuo bylbpoq
ktlbuobyrwbput,bildwbdlxuo b woysnbgpjfeptqbpoqbklteptq,beruswblyrwti
v.dmwqb.mbpoqbqleobuobdltwbltbswiibxulswoybp uypyuloabYptcpobie.o bylbp
owptwtbytwwbpoqbqwijwoqwqbylbpbiy.tqnbgtpojr,bylberujrbrwbslewtwqbSp
ktldbruibirl.sqwtabYrwobrwbjtwmybklteptqbiywpsyrusn,byrwb utsbklssleuo ,
kltbirwbepi,buobjlddlobeuyrbyrwblyrwtbLmptupoi,bisu rysnbptgltwpsa
Mtwiwoysnbyrwnbtwpjrwqbpbmluoyberwtwbyrwnbjl.sqbiwwbmspuosnbyrwbxussp w
gwslebyrwd,bpoqbuddwqupywsnbyrwbiwwduo bdniywtnblkbyrwbqpojuo br.yibepi
whmspuowqa

Yrwnbewtwblkbyrwbgww-ruxwbynmw,bjlddlobylbdponbPktujpobytugwi,bpoqbewtw
pgl.ybiwxwobkwwybuobqupdwywtbgnbiuhbltbiwxwobuobrwu ry,bg.ybuoiywpqblk
twiyuo blobyrwb tl.oq,bwpjrbr.ybepibi.imwoqwqbgnbpbrwpxnbrpeiwt-sufw
 tpiibtlmwbylbpbgtpojrblkblowblkbyrwbiwxwtpsb upoybytwwibyrpyb twe
euyruobyrwbiyljfpqwabKtldbyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwbglyyldblkbwpjrbr.ybytpuswq
polyrwtbsu rywtbtlmwabKtldbruibmliuyulobpglxwbyrwdbYptcpobipebol
lmwouo ibuobponblkbyrwbr.yibspt wbwol. rbylbpqduybyrwbglqnblkbpbdpo,
yrl. rbyrwtwbewtwbiwxwtpsblmwouo ibkl.tbltbkuxwbuojrwibuobqupdwywtbuo
yrwbiuqwiblkbwpjrbr.ybpgl.ybyrtwwbkwwybpglxwbyrwbkslltab.mlobyrwb tl.oq,
uoiuqwbyrwbjldml.oq,bewtwbiwxwtpsblkbyrwbuorpguypoyiblkbyrwbxussp w,buk
yrwbsuyyswbjlsswjyuloblkbieuo uo brl.iwibjl.sqbgwbqu oukuwqbgnbi.jrbp
opdwabOltbewtwbyrwbmwlmswbponbswiibiytpo wbylbYptcpobyrpobyrwutbmwj.supt
qldujuswiabYrpybyrwnbewtwbow tlwibepibwxuqwoy,bg.yblkbpbynmwbwoyutwsn
.okpdusuptbylbyrwbpmw-dpoabPssbewtwbopfwq,bpoqbeuyrl.ybponbltopdwoypyulo
erpyilwxwtblyrwtbyrpobpbkwebqp.giblkbjlslt,bmspjwqbpmmptwoysnbpybtpoqld
.mlobyrwutbglquwiabYrwnbewtwbypss,bpoqbxwtnbd.ij.sptbpmmwptuo ,byrl. r
yrwutbsw ibiwwdwqbd.jrbyllbirltybpoqbyrwutbptdibyllbslo bkltbmwtkwjy
inddwytn,beruswbyrwutbkpjwibewtwbpsdliybgwiyupsbuobjloyl.t,byrwutbvpei
gwuo bwhp  wtpywqsnbmtl opyrl.iberuswbpglxwbyrwutbgwwysuo bgtleibyrwtw
epibolbkltwrwpq,byrwbif.ssbt.oouo bgpjfbuobpobpsdliybrltucloypsbmspowbyl
pbmluoya

PibYptcpobiyllqbsllfuo bpybyrwdbrwbipebpolyrwtbqwijwoqblowblkbyrwbtlmwi
yrpybqpo swqbktldbyrwbglyyldblkbpbr.y,bpoqbuddwqupywsnbrwb.oqwtiyllqbyrw
m.tmliwblkbyrwbtlmwibpoqbyrwbsljpyuloblkbyrwbwoytpojwibylbyrwbqewssuo ia
Yrwbjtwpy.twibiz.pyyuo bpgl.yb.mlobyrwutbrp.ojrwibewtwbwo p wqbuo
kwwquo abIwxwtpsbrpqbglowibktldberujrbyrwnbewtwbywptuo byrwb.ojllfwq
kswirbeuyrbyrwutb twpybywwyr,beruswblyrwtibpywbkt.uybpoqby.gwtiabYrwtw
ewtwbuoquxuq.psiblkbglyrbiwhwibpoqblkbxptul.ibp wi,bktldbjrusqrllqbyl
dpy.tuyn,bg.ybyrwtwbepibolowbyrpybiwwdwqbxwtnblsqabYrwnbewtwbmtpjyujpssn
rputswii,bwhjwmybkltbijtp  n,btwqquirbgtleobsljfib.mlobyrwutbrwpqiabYrwn
imlfwbg.ybiwsqldbpoqbyrwobuobylowiberujrbtwiwdgswqbyrwb tlesuo blk
gwpiyi,boltblojw,beruswbYptcpobepyjrwqbyrwd,bquqbrwbiwwblowbsp. rblt
wxwobidusw,berujr,blkbpssbyrwutbytpuyi,btwoqwtwqbyrwdbdliyb.osufwbyrw
pxwtp wbopyuxwblkbPktujpabYrl. rbYptcpo’ibwnwibiwptjrwqbyrwbjldml.oq
jptwk.ssnbrwbipebolbuoqujpyuloblkbjllfuo b.ywoiusibltblkbponbkutwab.mlo
yrwb tl.oqbpgl.ybyrwdbspnbyrwutbewpmloi,birltybvpxwsuo-sufwbimwptibpoqbp
iltyblkbgpyysw-phbeuyrbpbirptmwowq,bdwypsbgspqwabYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibepi
 spqbyrpybrwbrpqbjldwbyruibepn,bkltbuybrpqbmwtduyywqbrudbylbiwwbi.jrbp
ynmwblkbopyuxwbpibrwbrpqbolybqtwpdwqbwhuiywq—pbynmwbilbslebyrpybuy
gltqwtwqbjsliwsnb.mlobyrwbgt.ywabWxwobyrwbEpc-qloibpoqbRl-qloiblk
Mps-.s-qlobewtwbkptbpqxpojwqbuobyrwbijpswblkbwxls.yulobjldmptwqbyl
yrwiwa

Pibrwbsllfwqbpybyrwdbrwbjl.sqbolybg.ybeloqwtbyrpybyrwnbewtwbi.kkujuwoysn
uoywssu woybylbdpo.kpjy.twbyrwbewpmloibyrwnbmliiwiiwq,berujrbrwbjl.sq
iww,bwxwobpybpbquiypojw,bewtwblkbkuowbeltfdpoirumbpoqbqwiu oabYrwut
r.yi,byll,biwwdwqbewssbpoqbuo woul.isnbdpqw,beruswbyrwbiyljfpqwberujr
i.ttl.oqwqbyrwbsuyyswbjldml.oqbepibypss,biytlo ,bpoqbewss-g.usy,
wxuqwoysnbkltbyrwbm.tmliwblkbipkw .ptquo byrwdbp puoiybyrwbsuloiberujr
uokwiywqbyrwbgpiuoa

PibYptcpobpoqbSpbepyjrwqbyrwiwbmwlmswbyrwnbgwjpdwbmtwiwoysnbpeptwblkbyrw
pmmtlpjrblkbildwbjtwpy.twbktldbyrwutbswky,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbyrwnbipebp
dpobiudusptbylbyrliwblkbyrwbjldml.oqbieuo bktldbpbytwwbyrpyblxwtr.o byrw
iyljfpqwbpoqbqtlmbeuyruoabYrwblyrwtibpjfoleswq wqbruibjlduo beuyrbijptjw
dltwbyrpobuoqukkwtwoyb spojwiabRwbjpdwbklteptqbpoq,biz.pyyuo bpdlo 
yrwd,bpmmwptwqbylbgwbywssuo byrwdblkbildwyruo ,bpoqbyrl. rbYptcpobjl.sq
olybrwptbruibeltqibrwbv.q wqbktldbruib wiy.twibpoqbyrwbiu obspo .p w
erujrbrwb.iwqbylbi.mmswdwoybruibdwp wtbimwwjr,byrpybrwbepibywssuo brui
kwssleiblkbyrwbiytpo wbjtwpy.twibrwbrpqbiwwobuobyrwbkltwiybpbirltybyudw
gwkltw,bpoqbyrwbpmw-dpobuddwqupywsnbv.q wqbyrpybyruibepibyrwbipdwberld
rwbrpqbgwwobpeptwbepibklssleuo byrwdbpoqberldbrwbrpqbi.jjwiik.ssnbm.y
lkkbyrwbijwoyabYrwbopttpyulobwxuqwoysnbwhjuywqbyrwd,bkltbildwblkbyrwd
ptliw,bpoqbswpmuo b.mbpoqbqleobeuyrbgwoybfowwi,bispmmwqbyrwutbptdi
p puoiybyrwutbiuqwib tlywiz.wsnabYrwbwhmtwiiuloib.mlobyrwutbkpjwi
ijptjwsnbjrpo wq,brlewxwt,bpoqbpkywtbpbdldwoybwpjrbiz.pyywqbqleobp puo
pibrwbrpqbgwwobgwkltwa

Uybepiberuswbyrwnbewtwbyr.ibwo p wqbyrpybyrwtwbwjrlwqbyrtl. rbyrwbkltwiy
pbsl.qbijtwpdbyrpybpepfwowqbuobyrwbduoqblkbyrwbpmw-dpobdponbipxp w
dwdltuwia

“Gls pou,”brwberuimwtwqbylbSpa

“Uybuiblowblkbyrwb twpybpmwi,”birwbipuq,bpoqbir.qqwtwqa

Mtwiwoysnbyrwnbipebrud,bieuo uo bqleobyrwbv.o swbytpusbyleptqbyrw
jldml.oqabPbr. wb ltussp,bg.ybi.jrbpb ltusspbpibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibrpq
owxwtbsllfwqblobgwkltwabLkbpsdliyb u poyujbiypy.tw,byrwbjtwpy.twbepi
epsfuo bwtwjybeuyrbyrwbiytuqwblkbpbdpo,bolybwxwtblojwbyl.jruo brui
fo.jfswibylbyrwb tl.oqabRuibrwpqbpoqbkpjwbewtwbpsdliybyrliwblkbp
 ltussp,bpoqbnwybyrwtwbepibpbqukkwtwojw,bpibYptcpobjl.sqbolywbpibyrw
jtwpy.twbjpdwbowptwt—uybepibGls pou,beuyrbyrwbil.sbpoqbgtpuoblkbp
dpo—oltbepibyruibpssbyrpybtwoqwtwqbyrwbjtwpy.twbiyptysuo bpoqb.ouz.wa
Iytpo wtbmwtrpmibyrpobp. rybwsiwbepibyrwbkpjybyrpybuybeltw
ltopdwoyi—poqbi.jrbltopdwoyi!b lsqbpoqbqupdloqibimptfswqbp puoiybuyi
irp  nbjlpy,bpglxwbuyibwsgleibewtwbo.dwtl.ibptdswyibpoqbyrwtwbewtw
pofswyib.mlobuyibsw i,beruswbktldbpb utqswbpgl.ybuyibduqqswbyrwtw
qwmwoqwqbgwkltwbpoqbgwruoqbpbslo bopttlebiytumbyrpybpsdliybyl.jrwqbyrw
 tl.oqbpoqberujrbiwwdwqbylbgwbwoyutwsnbjloiyt.jywqblkb lsqwobimpo swi
iwybeuyrbidpssbqupdloqiabOwxwtbgwkltwbrpqbVlrobJspnylo,bSltqb twniylfw,
iwwobi.jrbpbquimspnblkbgptgptujbkuowtn,boltbwxwobpduqiybyrwbvwewsiblk
Lmptbi.jrbpbewpsyrblkbmtujwswiibiylowia

Uddwqupywsnbpkywtbyrwbruqwl.ibijtwpdbrpqbkutiybgtlfwobyrwbjldmptpyuxw
iuswojwblkbyrwbkltwiy,bYptcpobrpqbolyujwqbuyibwkkwjyib.mlobyrwbuodpywi
lkbyrwbjldml.oqabUoiypoysnbyrwnbrpqbptuiwobylbyrwutbkwwyabYrwbeldwobpoq
jrusqtwobij.ttuwqbgwruoqbyrwbglswiblkbyrwbytwwibltbjspdgwtwqb.mbyrw
tlmwibuoylbyrwutbieuo uo bjp wi,beruswbildwblkbyrwbdwobpqxpojwqbylberpy
Yptcpobolebipebepibyrwb pywblkbyrwbjldml.oqabL.yiuqwbyruib pywbyrw
 ltusspbrpsywqbpoqbp puobtpuiwqbruibxlujw,bg.ybyruibyudwbuobimwwjr
tpyrwtbyrpobruibruqwl.ibijtwpda




[Uss.iytpyulo:b“.mlobyrwbyrutqbqpnbYptcpobirpssbquwbgwowpyrbdnbfoukw”]




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbUH
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbIRPKYbLKbQWPYR


PIbyrwbr. w,bdpo-sufwb ltusspbwoywtwqbyrwbjldml.oqbyrwbepttultibjsliwq
yrwb pyw,bpoqbkwssbgpjfbtwimwjyk.ssnbpibrwbpqxpojwqbylbyrwbjwoywtblkbyrw
xussp wberwtwbrwbiyllqbkltbpbdldwoy,bsllfuo bpgl.ya

“Erwtwbptwbyrwbirwibpoqbyrwbgps.i?”brwbpifwq,bywtiwsnab“Jpssbyrwda”

Yrwbeldwobpoqbyrwbjrusqtwobd.iybrpxwbrwptqbyrwbjlddpoq,bg.ybyrwnbquqboly
wdwt wbktldbyrwutbruquo bmspjwiabYrwbepttultibdlxwqbpgl.yb.owpiusn,
wxuqwoysnbyltobgnbyrwbjloksujyuo bwdlyuloiblkbkwptblkbyrwbjtwpy.twberl
rpqbuii.wqbyrwbltqwt,bpoqbtws.jypojwbylbk.skusbruibjlddpoqia

“Jpssbyrwd,”brwbtwmwpywq,b“ltb lbpoqbkwyjrbyrwda”bG.ybpybspiyblowblkbyrw
epttultibd.iywtwqbyrwbjl.tp wbylbpqqtwiibruda

“Yruibxussp wbrpibpstwpqnbk.touirwqblowbeldpobeuyruobyrwbdllo,”brwbipuqa
“Uybuibyrwby.toblkbpolyrwtbxussp wa”

“Iuswojw!”btlptwqbyrwb ltussp-dpo,bpqxpojuo byrtwpywouo snbyleptqbruda
“Nl.bptwbpbtpirb ldpo poubylbyrtwpywobyrwbeussblkbpbGls pou—Ubimwpf
euyrbyrwbxlujwblkbO.dp,byrwbWdmwtlt;blgwnbltbquwa”

Ytwdgsuo ,byrwbgspjfby.towqbpoqbjpsswqbyrwbeldwobpoqbjrusqtwo,bg.ybolow
twimloqwqbylbruibi.ddloiabYrwbGls poub wiy.twqbudmpyuwoysna

“ lbpoqbkwyjrbyrwd,”brwbqwdpoqwqabPoqbyrwbgspjfi,bjtuo uo ,bdlxwq
i.sswosnbpjtliibyrwbjldml.oqbyleptqbyrwbruquo bmspjwiblkbyrwutbeldwobpoq
jrusqtwoabMtwiwoysnbyrwnbtwy.towq,bqtp  uo byrwdbeuyrbyrwd,bgnbyrwbptdi
ildwyudwi,bg.yb.i.pssnbgnbyrwbrputabPsyrl. rbyrwnbrpqbiwwdwqbslpyrbyl
 uxwbyrwdb.m,byrwnbirlewqbolb woyswowiibyleptqbyrwd,boltbponbuoqujpyulo
lkbpkkwjyuloabYrwutbpyyuy.qwbyleptqbyrwd,brlewxwt,bepibmtwiwoysn
whmspuowqbylbYptcpobgnbyrwbowhybeltqiblkbyrwbepttultberlbrpqbimlfwo
mtwxul.isna

“ twpybGls pou,”brwbipuq,bpqqtwiiuo byrwb ltussp-dpo,b“ukbO.dpbypfwi
psepnibktldbyruibxussp w,byrwtwbeussbillobgwbolybwol. rbeldwobkltbyrw
epttultibrwtw,bpoqbyrwtwbeussbgwbyllbkwebjrusqtwo,bpoqbuobpbsuyyswbyudw
yrwtwbeussbgwbolowblkb.ibswkya”

“Erpyblkbyrpy?”b tleswqbyrwb ltussp-dpoab“Yrwtwbptwbpstwpqnbyllbdpon
 ldpo poubuobyrwbeltsqabKltberpyblyrwtbm.tmliwbewtwbnl.bjtwpywqbyrpobyl
iwtxwbO.dp,byrwbWdmwtlt,bpoqbruibjrliwobmwlmsw,byrwbGls pou?”bPibrw
imlfwbrwbepibwhpduouo byrwbeldwobpoqbjrusqtwo,bmuojruo byrwutbkswirbpoq
ml.oquo b.mlobyrwutbjrwiyibpoqbgpjfiabMtwiwoysnbrwbtwy.towqbylbp
jldmptpyuxwsnbnl.o beldpo,biytpqqsuo berliwbrumbepibpbidpssbjrusqa

“Yruiblowbeussbql,”brwbipuq,biopyjruo byrwbjrusqbktldbuyibdlyrwtbpoq
r.tsuo buybtl. rsnbpjtliibyrwbjldml.oq,berwtwbuybspnbp puoiybyrwbkpjwblk
yrwbmpsuipqw,bdlpouo bmuyuk.ssn,bpoqbmwtjrpojwbgtlfwobpoqbqnuo abYrw
mllt,biy.muqbdlyrwt,bpmmptwoysnbdltwbgwpiybyrpobr.dpo,biyllqbkltbp
dldwoybytwdgsuo buobq.dgbpo .uir,bpoqbyrwobirwbiyptywqbylbt.irbklteptq
ylbrwtbjrusqabG.ybyrwb ltussp-dpobiwucwqbrwtbeuyrblowblkbruib twpybrpoqi
poqbr.tswqbrwtbylbyrwb tl.oqabIud.sypowl.isnbyrwtwbptliwbktldbyrwbiuswoy
klsup wbpglxwbyrwdbyrwbkuwtjwbpoqbywttugswbijtwpdblkbyrwbjrpsswo uo 
g.ssbpmwabUobywttltbyrwbiudmswbgspjfibjpiybpkktu rywqb spojwib.meptq,
eruswbyrwb ltussp-dpobtpuiwqbruibruqwl.ibkpjwbuobioptsuo bpo wtbyleptq
yrwbp.yrltblkbyrwbgwiyupsbjtna

Iepnuo b.mlobpbswpknbgl. rbyrwnbgwrwsqbi.jrbpbjtwpy.twbpibolowblkbyrwd
rpqbwxwtbsllfwqb.mlobgwkltw—pberuywbdpo,bpbYptdpo pou,beuyrbruqwbpi
rputswiibpibyrwbglqnblkbRuiypr,byrwbiopfwabUobyrwbuoiypoybyrpybyrwn
sllfwqbyrwnbipebyrwbimwptbrpoqblkbyrwbiytpo wtbqtuxwbklteptq,bpoqbyrw
irpky,bimwwquo beuyrbyrwbieukyowiiblkbyrl. ry,bg.tnbuyiwskbuobyrwbgtwpiy
lkbyrwbGls pouabEuyrbpbiuo swbijtwpdblkbtp wbpoqbmpuo,byrwb ltussp-dpo
jt.dgswqbylbyrwbwptyr,berwtwbrwbiyt.  swqbimpidlqujpssnbkltbpbdldwoybpoq
yrwobspnbiyuss,buobqwpyra

Yrwbpmw-dpobrwsqbolb twpybslxwbkltbyrwb ldpo poubpibpbtpjw,bg.ybuorwtwoy
uobruibWo suirbgtpuobpoqbrwptybepibyrwbimutuyblkbkputbmspn,berujr
mtldmywqbrudbylbimloypowl.ibwiml.ipsblkbyrwbjp.iwblkbyrwbewpfabLobyrw
lyrwtbrpoqbGls poubepibruibrwtwquyptnbwowdnabRuibkutiybgpyyswbrpqbgwwo
euyrbGls pou,bpoqbruibkutiybfussa

Yrwbmlltbgspjfibewtwbiyussbiypoquo buobiy.mwkuwqbeloqwtdwoyberwobrw
qtlmmwqbktldbyrwbytwwbylbyrwb tl.oqbpdlo byrwdabYrwnbiywmmwqbgpjfbuo
ywttlt,bpoqbiud.sypowl.isnbyrwnbtpuiwqbyrwutbimwptibdwopjuo snbp puoiy
ruda

“Ubpdbpbktuwoq,”brwbipuqab“UbpdbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabSlewtbnl.tbimwptia”
Poqbyrwobrwby.towqbpoqbeuyrqtwebruibleobewpmlobktldbyrwbjptjpiiblk
Gls pouab“Erlbuibyruibjtwpy.tw,byrpybdpnbjldwbuoylbnl.tbxussp wbpoqbispn
nl.tbgps.ibpoqbiywpsbnl.tbirwi?bErlbuibrw,byrpybnl.bqptwbolybqtuxwbnl.t
imwptibyrtl. rbrud?”

“Rwbuiblowblkbyrwb twpybGls pou,”bipuqbyrwbepttult,berlbiwwdwqbylbgw
imlfwidpo,bpoqbyrwbswpqwtbuobyrwbxussp wab“Rwbuiblowblkbyrwbjrliwo
mwlmswblkbO.dp,byrwbWdmwtlt,bpoqberwobO.dpbswptoibyrpybrwbrpibgwwo
fusswqbuobl.tbxussp w,bewbirpssbpssbquwbkltberpybnl.brpxwbqlowa”

“ErlbuibO.dp?”bqwdpoqwqbyrwbpmw-dpo,bylberldbO.dp,buobyrwbspo .p wblk
yrwb twpybpmwi,bdwpoyblosnbsuloa

“O.dpbuibyrwbWdmwtlt,”btwmsuwqbyrwbgspjf,b“erlbsuxwibeuyrbyrwbGls poubuo
yrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqia”

Rwbquqbolybwhmtwiibrudiwskbuobv.iybyrwiwbeltqi,bkltbyrwbdwp wtbspo .p w
lkbyrwb twpybpmwi,bwxwobyrl. rbpdmsukuwqbgnbyrwbru rwtbuoywssu wojwbpoq
 twpywtbqwxwslmdwoyblkbyrwbLmptupoi,buibiyussbmtuduyuxwbuobyrwbwhytwdwa
Erpybrwbrpqbtwpssnbipuqbepibdltwbowptsnb“O.dp,byrwbfuo blkbfuo i,berl
suxwibuobyrwbfuo ’ibr.yblkb suyywtuo biylowi,”berujrbjpttuwqbylbyrw
pmw-dpo’ibduoqbyrwbkpuyrk.sbudmtwiiuloblkbyrwbkpjyabO.dp,bwxuqwoysn,bepi
yrwbopdwbpqlmywqbgnbyrwbfuo blkbyrwbGls pou,bpoqbyrwbyuyswb_wdmwtlt_,
uoqujpywqbdwtwsnbruibmtwwduowojwbpdlo byrwbjruwkia

YrwbuoiypoybyrpybGls poubrpqbkpsswobyrwbgwtwpxwqbdlyrwtbt.irwqbklteptq
poqb pyrwtwqbrwtbuov.twqbuokpoybuoylbrwtbptdiabIrwbiz.pyywqbolebp puoiy
yrwbmpsuipqw,bj.qqsuo buybylbrwtbgtwpiy,bpoqbjtllouo bilkysnbylbmpjukn
uyibjtuwi,berujrbYptcpobi.qqwosnbquijlxwtwqbewtwbdltwbyrwbtwi.syblk
ktu rybyrpobuov.tnabPybkutiybyrwbdlyrwtbrpqbgwwobktu rywowqberwobrwbrpq
pyywdmywqbylbwhpduowbyrwbjrusq,bqtpeuo bpepnbpoqbgptuo brwtbku ryuo 
kpo i,bd.jrbpkywtbyrwbdpoowtblkbpbeusqbgwpiyabG.ybmtwiwoysnbyrwtwbrpq
iwwdwqbylbjldwbylbrwtbq.ssbgtpuobpbtwpsucpyulobyrpybyruibjtwpy.twbrpq
ipxwqbrwtbktldbGls pou,byrpybrwbrpqbmwtduyywqbrwtbylbtwjlxwtbrwtbuokpoy
poqbyrpybrwbepibdpfuo bolbwkkltybylbrptdbwuyrwtblkbyrwdabJloxuojwqbpy
spiybyrpybyrwbjrusqbepiblosnbgt.uiwq,bYptcpoby.towqbp puobyleptqbyrw
epttulti,berlbewtwbypsfuo byl wyrwtbuobpobwhjuywqbsuyyswb tl.mbpbkwe
mpjwibpepnabPibyrwnbipebrudbpqxpojuo ,byrwnbimtwpqbuoylbpbiwdu-jutjsw
poqbiyllqbkpjuo bruda

“YrwbGls poubeussbiwoqbpoqbispnb.ibpss,”byrwnbipuq,b“erwobyrwnbswpto
erpybrpibrpmmwowqbuobl.tbxussp w,b.oswiibewbjpobypfwbylbyrwdbyrw
jtwpy.twbyrpybjpiybyrwbimwptabYrwtwkltw,bYptdpo pou,bnl.birpssb lbeuyr
.ibylbyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqi,bpoqbyrwtwbewbirpssb uxwbnl.blxwtbylbyrw
Gls poubpoqbmwtrpmibO.dpbeussbklt uxwb.ia”

Yrwbpmw-dpobiduswqabErpybfuoqblkbjtwpy.twbquqbyrwbiudmswbgspjfibyruof
rud,bylbgwsuwxwbyrpybrwbel.sqbmwtduybrudiwskbylbgwbwpiusnbswqbuoylbyrw
pxwo uo brpoqiblkbO.dp,byrwbWdmwtltblkbyrwbGls pouabPsyrl. rbrwbepi
k.ssnbpeptwblkbyrwbtuifbyrpybrwbrpqbypfwobuobwoywtuo byrwbxussp w,brw
fowebyllbyrpybgwjp.iwbrwbepibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibyrwtwbepibpb twpywt
jrpojwbyrpybrwbel.sqbgwbpgswbylbwijpmwbyrpobyrpybyrwnbjl.sqbrlsqbrudabRw
rpqbkpjwqbipxp wbimwptdwobgwkltwbpoqbfowebmtwjuiwsnberpybylbwhmwjybuo
yrwbwxwoyblkbrliyusuyuwiabRwbmtwkwttwq,brlewxwt,bylbdpfwbmwpjwbeuyr
yrwiwbmwlmsw,bkltbuybrpqbgwwobuobruibduoqbylbkuoqbildwbdwpoiblk
z.wiyulouo byrwdbyrwbdldwoybyrpybrwbrpqbquijlxwtwqbyrwutbxussp wbruqqwo
pepnbuobyruibeusqbkltwiya

“Epuy,”brwbipuq,byrwtwkltwab“El.sqbnl.bgwytpnbpbktuwoqberlbwoywtibnl.t
xussp wbylbmtlywjybnl.bktldbpobwowdn?”

“Ewbeussbolybispnbnl.,bYptdpo pouabEwbeussbypfwbnl.bylbyrwbGls poubklt
O.dp,byrwbWdmwtlta”

“G.ybyrpybel.sqbpdl.oybylbyrwbipdwbyruo ,”btwy.towqbYptcpo,b“kltbnl.
ewssbfolebyrpybO.dp,byrwbWdmwtlt,beussbrpxwbdwbispuoa”

“Yrpybewbjpoolybrwsm,”btwmsuwqbyrwbimlfwidpoab“Ukbewbjl.sqbipxwbnl.bew
el.sq,bg.yberwobyrwbGls poubquijlxwtberpybrpibrpmmwowqbuobl.tbxussp w,
uybuibewberlbd.iybi.kkwt,b.oswii,bmwtrpmi,byrwnbptwbipyuikuwqbylbm.ouir
nl.buoiywpqa”

“G.ybernbowwqbyrwnbfolebyrpybyrwbGls poubrpibgwwobispuobuobnl.t
xussp w?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Eussbyrwnbolybiwwbruibglqnbowhybyudwbyrwnbjldw?”bpifwqbyrwbimlfwidpoa

“Olybukbnl.btwdlxwbruibglqn,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoa

YrwbgspjfibijtpyjrwqbyrwutbrwpqiabUoylbyrwutbq.ss,bu oltpoybduoqibrpq
jtwmybolbi.jrbi.  wiyuloblkbpbils.yuloblkbyrwutbmtlgswdabErpybyrw
iytpo wtbipuqbepibyt.wabOlowbg.ybyrwnbpoqbrwbfowebyrpybGls poubrpqbgwwo
ispuobeuyruobyrwutbmpsuipqwabYlbtwdlxwbyrwbglqn,byrwo,bel.sqbgwbyl
twdlxwbpssbi.imujulobktldbyrwutbxussp wabG.yberwtwbewtwbyrwnbylbypfwbuy?
Yrwnbm.ybyrwbz.wiyulobylbYptcpoa

“Ubeussbquimliwblkbrudbkltbnl.,”btwmsuwqbyrwbYptdpo pouab“Poiewtbdn
z.wiyuloibyt.yrk.ssnbpoqbUbeussbmtlduiwbylbypfwbrudbpepnbpoqbquimliwblk
rudbuobi.jrbpbdpoowtbyrpybolblowbeussbfolebrlebrwbquwq,bltberwtwa”

“Erpybptwbnl.tbz.wiyuloi?”bpifwqbyrwbimlfwidpoa

“Ubpdbpbiytpo wtbuobnl.tbjl.oytnabUbpdbsliybrwtw,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoa
“PoqbUbel.sqbkuoqbpbepnbl.yblkbyrwbxpsswnbuobyrpybqutwjyuloa”bPoqbrw
mluoywqbyleptqbyrwbil.yrwpiya

Yrwbgspjfbirllfbruibrwpqab“Yrwtwbdpnbgwbpbepnbl.yblkbyrwbxpsswnbuobyrpy
qutwjyulo,”brwbipuq,b“g.yberpybsuwibgwnloqbolbdpobfolei,boltbqlbUbfole
erwyrwtbyrwtwbgwbpbepnbl.ybltberwyrwtbyrwtwbgwbponyruo bgwnloqabUybui
ipuqbyrpybpssbuibkutwbgwnloqbyrwbdl.oypuo,bpoqbolblowbqptwibylb lbpoq
iwwabPibkltbdniwsk,bUbrpxwbowxwtbgwwobkptbktldbdnbxussp w—pybdliyblosn
pbqpn’ibdptjrbylbr.oybkltb pdwbkltbyrwbGls pou,bpoqbylb pyrwtbkt.uybpoq
o.yibpoqbmspoypuoibkltbyrwdabUkbyrwtwbuibpbepnbl.ybUbqlbolybfole,bolt
el.sqbponbdpobqptwbypfwbuybukbyrwtwbewtwa”

“Qlwibolblowbwxwtbswpxwbyrwbxpsswn?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Ubfolebolyberpyblyrwtibql,”btwmsuwqbyrwbimlfwidpo,b“g.ybyrliwblkbyrui
xussp wbowxwtbswpxwbyrwbxpsswna”

“Erpybsuwibuobyrpybqutwjyulo?”bpifwqbYptcpo,bmluoyuo byleptqbLmpta

“Ubqlbolybfole,”btwmsuwqbyrwbgspjf,b“losnbyrpybildwyudwibyrwbGls pou
jldwbktldbyrpybepn,bgtuo uo beuyrbyrwdbiytpo wbjtwpy.twi;bsuyyswbdwo
euyrberuywbifuoibpoqbd.jrbrput,beuyrbirlty,bjtllfwqbsw ibpoqbslo bptdi,
poqbildwyudwiberuywbirwi,berlbqlbolybsllfbpybpssbsufwbyrwbiytpo wbsuyysw
Yptdpo pouabG.yberwtwbyrwnb wybyrwdbUbqlbolybfole,boltbqlbyrwnbwxwtbywss
.iabPtwbyrwiwbpssbyrwbz.wiyuloibyrpybnl.beuirbylbpif?”

“Nwi,byrpybuibpss,”btwmsuwqbYptcpo,biwwuo byrpybrwbjl.sqb puobol
uokltdpyuloberpyilwxwtbktldbyrwiwbu oltpoybxussp wtiabTwpsucuo byrpybrw
d.iybkuoqbruibleobepnbl.yblkbyrwbxpsswn,bpoqbfoleuo byrpybrwbjl.sqbqlbil
d.jrbdltwbz.ujfsnbpoqbipkwsnbukbrwbepibpslow,brwbqwjuqwqbylbil.oqbyrw
gspjfibuobtwspyulobylbpbmspobyrpybrpqbwoywtwqbruibduoqa

“UkbUbypfwbyrwbGls poubpepn,bilbyrpybyrwblyrwtibeussbolybfolebyrpybrw
epibispuobuobnl.tbxussp w,beussbnl.bytwpybdwbpibpbktuwoq?”brwbpifwqa

“Nwi,”btwmsuwqbyrwbimlfwidpoa

“Yrwo,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“eussbnl.bfwwmbrwtwbkltbdwbdnberuywbirwb.oyusbU
twy.tobp puobylbnl.tbxussp w?bNl.bjpobruqwbrwtbuoblowblkbnl.tbr.yibukbp
Gls poubjldwi,bpoqbolblowbowwqbwxwtbfolebyrpybirwbuibpdlo bnl.abErpybql
nl.bipn?”

Yrwbgspjfibsllfwqbptl.oqab“Ewbqlbolybiwwbrwt,”bipuqbyrwbimlfwidpoa
“Erwtwbuibirw?”

“Ukbnl.beussbmtlduiwbylbmtlywjybrwtbpoqbruqwbrwt,bUbeussbgtuo brwt
rwtw,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“Ubeussbolybrptdbrwt,”bipuqbyrwbrwpqbdpo,b“g.ybUbqlbolybfolebpgl.ybyrw
lyrwtia”

Yptcpoby.towqbyleptqbyrwblyrwtiberlbewtwbjs.iywtwqbpgl.y,bsuiywouo ab“U
pdb luo bylbgtuo bdnbdpywbuoylbnl.tbxussp w,”brwbipuq,b“poqbnl.bptw
 luo bylbruqwbrwt,bpoqbkwwqbrwt,bpoqbmtlywjybrwtb.oyusbUbtwy.toabUbirpss
ypfwbpepnbyrwbglqnblkbGls pou,bilbyrpybolbi.imujulobirpssbkpssb.mlobnl.,
poqberwobUbjldwbgpjfbUbirpssbwhmwjybylbkuoqbdnbdpywbipkwbpoqb.orptdwqa”

Rwbrpqbyrl. rybuybgwiybylbqwijtugwbSpbpibruibdpyw,biuojwbyr.ibyrwnbdu ry
.oqwtiypoqbyrpybirwbepib.oqwtbruibmtlywjyulo,bpoqbukbyrwnbkwsybwuyrwt
 tpyuy.qwbltbkwptbyleptqbrud,bSpbel.sqbgwbipkwtabTpuiuo bruibkpjwbyleptq
yrwbytwwberwtwbirwbepibruqqwo,brwbjpsswqbylbSpbylbqwijwoq,bpoqbpbdldwoy
spywtbirwbjspdgwtwqbqleobylbyrwbslewtbgtpojrwiblkblowblkbyrwbytwwibuo
yrwbjldml.oqbpoqbqtlmmwqbuoylbYptcpo’ibptdia

“Yruibuibirw,”brwbipuqbylbyrwbpiiwdgswqbgspjfi,b“ .ptqbrwtbewssbpoqbruqw
rwtbktldbyrwbGls pouabUk,b.mlobdnbtwy.to,bUbkuoqbyrpybponbrptdbrpi
gwkpsswobrwt,bUbirpssbypfwbeltqbylbyrwbGls poubyrpybuybepibnl.berlbquq
yrui,”bpoqbrwbmluoywqbylbyrwbjltmiwblkbyrwb ltussp-dpoa

Spby.towqbpmmwpsuo snbyleptqbrud,bkwptbirleuo buobrwtbwnwiab“Nl.bptwboly
 luo bylbswpxwbdwbrwtw?”birwbpifwqa

“Ywdmltptusnblosn,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoab“Yrwiwbmlltbmwlmswbptwbpktpuqbyrpy
ukbyrwbqwpyrblkbyruibjtwpy.twbuibytpjwqbylbyrwutbxussp wbyrwnbirpssbpss
i.kkwtbyrwbetpyrblkbruibkwsslei,bpoqbilbUbrpxwbmtlduiwqbyrpybUbeuss
twdlxwbyrwbwxuqwojwbuobi.jrbpbepnbpibylbqutwjybi.imujulobwsiwerwtwabUk
yrwnbptwbi.kkujuwoysnbru rbuobyrwbijpswblkbwxls.yulobylbrptglt
iwoyudwoyiblkb tpyuy.qw,berujrbUbql.gy,byrwnbeussbkwwsblgsu pywqbylbdw
kltbrpxuo bispuobyruibgwpiy,bpibewssbpibkltbmtwxwoyuo bi.imujulobkpssuo 
.mlobyrwdabKltbyrwiwbtwpiloibyrwnbirl.sqbmtlywjybnl.,bg.ybylbdpfw
pii.tpojwbql.gsnbi.twbUbrpxwbpmmwpswqbpsilbylbyrwutbkwptblkbyrw
Gls pou—pbjrptpjywtuiyujberujrbUbfolebyrwnbmliiwiiabUbpdbi.twbyrpybnl.
eussbgwbpibipkwbrwtwbpibeuyrbdwb.oyusbUbtwy.to,blyrwteuiwbUbel.sqboly
swpxwbnl.abG.ybpslowbUbjpobytpxwsbd.jrbkpiywt,bpoqberuswbUbpdb lowbU
uoywoqbylbkuoqbpbepnbl.yblkbyruibxpsswn,byrwobUbirpssbtwy.tobkltbnl.bpoq
yl wyrwtbewbdpnbdpfwbl.tbwijpmwbwpiusn,bltbpybswpiybeuyrb twpywt
pii.tpojwblkbi.jjwiibyrpobewtwbewbylbgs.oqwtbislesnbpgl.ybyl wyrwta”

“Nl.beussbjldwbgpjf?”birwbpifwq,bpbolywblkbkwpt,bslo uo ,bpoqbpmmwpsbuo
rwtbxlujwa

“Ubeussbjldwbgpjf,”brwbtwmsuwq,bpoqbyrwoby.touo bylbyrwbgspjfi:b“Jswpt
l.yblowblkbyrwiwbr.yibkltbdnbdpyw,bpoqbiwwbyrpybirwbuibolybdlswiywq,bpoq
yrpybirwbuibk.touirwqbeuyrbkllqbpoqbepywtabPoqbtwdwdgwtberpybUbipuq,
.mlobrwtbipkwynbnl.tbsuxwibqwmwoqa”

Iyllmuo ,bYptcpobsukywqbyrwbqwpqb ltussp-dpobylbruibirl.sqwt,bpoqbyrw
iudmswbgspjfibdptxwswqbpybruibmtlewiiabLkb twpybmrniujpsbiytwo yr
yrwdiwsxwi,byrwtwbepibolyblowblkbyrwdbg.ybel.sqbrpxwbiyp  wtwqb.oqwtbyrw
ewu ryblkbGls pou,bnwybyruibiytpo wbYptdpo poubepsfwqbwpiusnbgwowpyrbrui
g.tqwo,bpoqberwobyrwnbrpqblmwowqbyrwb pywbuobyrwbmpsuipqwbrwbytlyywq
qleobyrwbv.o swbytpusbpibyrl. rbrwbjpttuwqbolyruo bg.ybruibleobktpdwabP
dldwoybspywtbrwbquipmmwptwqbpybpby.tobpoqbepibiepsslewqbgnbyrwbkltwiya

Spby.towqbylbyrwbgspjfi:b“Mtwmptwbdnbr.y,”birwbipuq,bkltbirwbepibxwtn
yutwqbpoqbslo wqbylbtwiyabYrwnbwnwqbrwtbpifpojwbpoqberuimwtwqbpdlo 
yrwdiwsxwiabUybepibwxuqwoybylbrwtbyrpybyrwtwbepibpbqukkwtwojwblkblmuoulo
pdlo byrwd,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbktldbiopyjrwiblkbjloxwtipyuloberujrbirw
lxwtrwptqbirwbtwpsucwqbyrpyberuswbildwblkbyrwbgspjfibewtwbuobkpxltblk
lgwnuo bYptcpo’ibuov.ojyuloibudmsujuysn,byrwtwbewtwblyrwtiberlblgvwjywq
iytwo.l.isnbpoqberlbeuirwqbylbtuqbyrwutbxussp wblkbrwt,bswiybirwbgw
quijlxwtwqbyrwtwbgnbyrwbGls pou,bpoqbyrwbxussp wtibgwbm.ouirwq
pjjltquo sna

“Uybel.sqbgwbgwyywt,”birwbrwptqblowblkbyrwbgspjfibipn,b“ylby.tobrwtblxwt
ylbyrwbGls poubpyblojwbpoqbywssbyrwdbyrpybewbipebrwtbdpywbispnbyrw
dwiiwo wtblkbO.dpabEwbeussbipnbyrpybewbytuwqbylbjpmy.twbyrwbYptdpo pou
g.ybyrpybrwbwijpmwq,bpoqbyrpybewbewtwblosnbpgswbylbiwucwbruibdpywabYr.i
eussbewbeuobyrwbkpxltblkbO.dp,bpoqbmwtrpmibyrwobrwbeussbolybypfwbilbdpon
lkbl.tbeldwobpoqbjrusqtwoa”

“G.ybyrwbYptdpo poubuib twpy,”btwmsuwqblowblkbyrwblyrwtiab“Rwbuibdltw
mlewtk.sbwxwobyrpobGls pouabRwbel.sqbdpfwbpbywttugswbwowdn,bpoq,bpibyrw
jrpojwibptwbyrpybyrwbGls poubel.sqbolybgwsuwxwb.ibewbirl.sqbyrwobrpxw
olyblosnbyrwdbg.ybyrwbYptdpo poubylbkwpta”

“Nl.bptwbtu ry,”bjtuwqbSp,b“yrwbYptdpo poubuib twpyabKptbgwyywtbeussbuy
gwbkltbnl.bylbrpxwbrudbkltbktuwoqbyrpobwowdnabIuo sw-rpoqwqbrwb tpmmswi
euyrbO.dp,byrwbsulo,bpoqbispnibrudabNl.bipebeuyrberpybwpiwbrwbsukywqbyrw
glqnblkbyrwbdu rynbGls poubylbruibirl.sqwtabNl.bipebrudbytlybsu rysn
qleobyrwbv.o swbytpusbgwowpyrbruibg.tqwoabEuyrbwz.psbwpiwbeussbrwbjpttn
yrwbjltmiwbyrtl. rbyrwbytwwiblkbyrwbkltwiy,bkptbpglxwbyrwb tl.oqabUobpss
yrwbeltsqbyrwtwbuibolblyrwtbsufwbrud,bolblyrwtbsufwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwia
Ukbnl.bptwbeuiw,b ldpo pou,bnl.beussbrpxwbYptcpobkltbpbktuwoqa”

Yrwbgspjfibsuiywowqbylbrwt,byrwutbq.ssbkpjwibtwxwpsuo bolyruo blkberpy
epibmpiiuo buobyrwutbiy.muqbgtpuoiabKltbpbkwebdldwoyibyrwnbiyllqbyr.ibuo
iuswojw,byrwbr.sfuo ,bu oltpoybgspjfib.mloblowbiuqw,byrwbiswoqwt,
gwp.yuk.sberuywbeldpob.mlobyrwblyrwtabYrwobSpbimlfwa

“ l,”birwbjtuwqbudmwtul.isn,b“poqbmtwmptwbdnbr.ya”bUybepibyrwbRu r
MtuwiywiiblkbyrwbKspduo b lq;bSp,byrwbz.wwoblkbLmpt,bpqqtwiiuo bispxwia
Rwtbtw psbduwo,brwtbjlddpoquo bylowi,betl. rybpobuoiypoybjrpo wbuobyrw
xussp wti,bpoqbSpbfowebyrwobyrpybYptcpobepibtu rybuobruibpii.dmyulobyrpy
yrwnbjl.sqbgwbdlxwqblosnbyrtl. rbkwpt,bkltbolebyrwnby.towqbz.ujfsn,
jlewtuo bsufwberummwqbql i,bpoqbrpiywowqbylbpbowptgnbr.y,berujrbyrwn
z.ujfsnbmtwmptwqbkltbrwt,bkwyjruo bktwirbswpxwibpoqb tpiiwibkltbuyi
ksllt,bpoqbkt.uybpoqbo.yibpoqbmspoypuoibkltbrwtbdwpsa

Erwobpssbepibtwpqn,bSpbjspdgwtwqb.mbyrwbtlmwbpoqbyrtl. rbyrwbjutj.spt
lmwouo buobyrwbkslltblkbyrwbrpo uo br.y,berujrbirwbkl.oqbspt wbpoqbputn,
poqbolebtwpilopgsnbjswpoabIrwbqtwebyrwbtlmwb.mbpkywtbrwtbpoqbyrtwe
rwtiwskb.mlobyrwbilkybgwqbyrwnbrpqbmtwmptwqbkltbrwt,bpoqbillobyrwb woysw
iepnuo blkbyrwbieuo uo br.y,byrwbilkybd.td.tblkbyrwbswpxwibpglxwbrwt,
yrwbxlujwiblkbyrwbgutqibpoqbuoiwjyibjldguowqbeuyrbrwtbleobmrniujps
whrp.iyulobylbs.ssbrwtbuoylbqwwmbis.dgwta




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbH
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbDPQbYTWPJRWTN


YLbyrwboltyrewiyblkbyrwbxpsswnblkbLmptbyrwbidlfwbtliwbktldbyrwbjllf
kutwiblkbpbjpdmbuoberujrbildwbr.oqtwqbgspjfibpoqbiuhberuywibewtwbwpyuo 
yrwutbwxwouo bdwpsabYrwbow tlwibiz.pyywqbi.sswobpoqbdltliw,bd.dgsuo 
yl wyrwtbuobslebylowiblxwtbyrwutbdwp wtbkptw,byrwberuywi,bijlesuo bpoq
pmmtwrwoiuxw,bfwmybyrwutbkutwptdibjsliwbpybrpoqabLowblkbyrwd,bpb uts,
poqbyrwblosnbdwdgwtblkbrwtbiwhbuobyrwbmptyn,bepibpqqtwiiuo brwtbkwsslei:

“EwbrpxwbPqlsmr’ibiyuo uowiibpoqbWiywgpo’ibgtp  pqljulbylbyrpofbkltbyrw
jloquyulobuoberujrbewbptw,”birwbipuqa

YrwbkpybGs.gwtbirt.  wqbruibirl.sqwt,byrwbgu bImpouptqbijleswqa

“Kltbxn,”bpifwqbPqlsmr,b“pdbUbylbgspdw?”

“Nl.bewtwbyllbiyuo nbylbwdmslnbwol. rbjpttuwtiabUbylsqbnl.bpybyrwbyudw
yrpybewbl. rybylbrpxwbrpqbyelbr.oqtwqbgspjfibuobl.tbmptyn,bg.ybnl.
epoywqbylbipxwbpbsuyyswbdlown,bpoqboleberpybuibyrwbtwi.sy?bKukynbdwo
jpttnuo bwu rynbml.oqiblkb lsqbpmuwjwbpoqbyrwblyrwtbjpttuwtibptw
lxwtg.tqwowqbeuyrbjpdmbwz.umdwoy,beruswbyrwtwbptwbijptjwbwol. rbswkybklt
pifptubylb .ptqb.ibmtlmwtsnabEwbrpxwbylbqtuxwbyrwdbsufwbgwpiyibylbdpfw
ponbmtl twiibpoqbylbfwwmbyrwdbktldbyrtleuo bpepnbyrwutbslpqi,bpoqbyrwn
ptwbkp  wqbl.ybpoqbpo tnabYrwnbqlo’ybtwz.utwbd.jrblkbpobwhj.iwbylbfuss
.ibpssblobyrwbimlyabLobylmblkbpssbyruibyrwnbptwb.oqwtkwqabUkbewbjl.sq
fwwmbyrwutbgwssuwibkusswqbewbjl.sqbmtlgpgsnbfwwmbyrwdbrpmmnbpoq
twpilopgsnbjloywoywq,bg.ybUbrpxwbswptowqbwol. rbpgl.ybopyuxwibylbfole
yrpybukbyrwnbptwbr.o tnbyrwnbptwbowuyrwtbrpmmnboltbjloywoywq,bwxwobuo
uqswowiiabUkbWiywgpobrpqbolybgtp  wqbilbd.jrbpgl.ybruibmtlewiibpibp
r.oywtbewbirl.sqbrpxwbgtl. rybwol. rbmtlxuiuloibylbspiyb.ibyrtl. r,bg.y
ole,byrl. rbewbptwbgptwsnbiyptywqb.mlobl.tbtwy.tobvl.town,bewbptwb.mlo
swiibyrpobrpskbtpyuloia”

“Ubjpo’ybfussb pdwberwobyrwtwbuio’ybponb pdw,”b tleswqbyrwbImpouptqa

“Yrwtwbuibmswoynblkb pdw,”bipuqbFtpifu,byrwbT.iiupoab“Ewbiwwbyrwbytpjfi
lkbuybwxwtnbqpna”

YrwbImpouptqbwnwqbrudbxwoldl.isnab“Ukbyrwtwbuibilbd.jrb pdw,”brwbipuq,
“ lbl.ybpoqb wybuybnl.tiwska”

“Ubowxwtbjspudwqbylbgwbpbr.oywt,”btwmsuwqbFtpifu,b“yrl. rbUbjl.sqb lbl.y
euyrbpbisuo birlybpoqbpbmwpbirllywtbpoqbqlbpibewssbpibnl.brpxwa”

YrwbImpouptqbswpmwqbylbruibkwwybdwopjuo sn,bpoqbuoiypoysnbyrwbT.iiupo
jlxwtwqbrudbeuyrbpbrwpxnbiwtxujwbtwxlsxwta

“J.ybyrpybg.iuowii,”bjtuwqbyrwb uts,birptmsn,bswpmuo bgwyewwobyrwda

“Swybyrwbgsu rywtibku ry,”b tleswqbVlrobMwwgswiab“Ukblowblkb’wdbfussi
yrwbrlyrwtbyrwtw’ssbgwbkwewtbylbimsuybyrwbiep ,bpoqb’wtwbewbptwb’o
yrpy’ibyrpya”

“Kltbxnbirl.sqbxwbz.pttws?”bqwdpoqwqbGs.gwtab“Qwtwbuibwol. rbklt
pss—lxwtbkltyn-ytwwby’l.ipoqbml.oqibpmuwjwabXwobnl.b wybdpqbpybdwbnl.
jpssbdwbpbqutynbVweb.oqbipnbqpybUbpdbiyuo n,bg.yb_Dwuob lyy_!bnl.
JrtuiyupoibptwbxltiwtabNl.bxl.sqbfussbx.oblkbnl.tbktuwoqibylb wybdltw
dlownab_Lu!bLu!_bypofb_ lyy_bqpybUbpdbolybpbJrtuiyupoa”

“Ir.yb.m,”b tleswqbYrtljf,b“ltbew’ssbrpxwbkltyn-yrtwwbyrl.ipoqbml.oqi
dltwbylbquxuqwa”

Gs.gwtbwnwqbyrwbgu bWo suirdpobkwptk.ssnab“Jldw,bjldw,bQujf,”brwbllcwq,
uobruiblusuwiybylowi,b“nl.bxl.sqo’yb wybdpqbpybpbswwqswbjrlfwbxl.sqbnl.,
.oqbdwbnl.tbgwiybktuwoq?”

“U’dbiujfblkbpssbyruib tl.iuo’,”bipuqbYrtljfab“Ubr’puo’ybolbru r-gtle,bU
r’puo’ybolyruo’bg.ybpbm. abG.ybUb lybiwoiwbwol. rbylbfolebyrpybKsltp’i
yrwblosnblowbuobyrwbgsllduo’bg.ojrberliwbgtpuoibel.sqo’ybtpyyswbptl.oq
uobpbmwpo.ybirwssabVlro,bGs.gwt,bFtpifubpoqbdw,bew’twbrwtwbgwjp.iwbew
jl.sqbtpuiwbyrwbdlownbylbjpttnbl.ybKsltp’ibmspoabYrwbqp lbyrwtw”—poqbrw
uoqujpywqbWiywgpo—“gwjp.iwbruibkpjwbpoqbruibku .twbkusswqbyrwbgussa
Yrwtwbqlo’ybponblkb.ibowwqbolbgtpuoibkltbyruibeltf,bpoqbyrwtwbpuo’ybpon
lkb.ib lybponbdltwbgtpuoibyrpobewbowwqabKsltp’ibyrwbgtpuoiblkbyrui
l.ykuy,bpoqbyrwbillowtbwxwtnlowb.oqwtiypoqibyrpybpoqbypfwibltqwtibktld
rwt,byrwbgwyywtblkkbew’ssbpssbgwabIrw’ibgwwobylbPktujpbeuyrbyruibSltq
 twniylfwbkwsswtbgwkltw—nl.be.cbruibeukw’ibdpuq,bepio’ybnl.,bKsltp?bPoq
irwbfoleibildwyruo’bpgl.ybyrwbjl.oytnbpoqbyrwbopyuxwibpoqbyrwbpoudpsi,
poqbyrwtwbqlo’ybolowblkb.ibfolebo.yyuo’a”

“Yrtljfbuibtu ry,”bipuqbFtpifu,bz.ujfsn,b“ew’xwbgwwobd.qqsuo bslo 
wol. rabEwbrpxwo’ybrpqbpbglii,bpoqbyrwbyruo bylbqlbuibylbdpfwbKsltpbglii
ktldbolebloabUkbponlowbjpob wyb.ibl.yblkbyrui,birwbjpo,bpoqbktldbyrwbepn
yrliwbkwssleiblxwtbyrwtwbptwbpjyuo ,”bpoqbrwbolqqwqbyleptqbyrwbgspjfi,
“ew’ssbgwbs.jfnbukbewbwxwtb wybl.ybeuyrbl.tbifuoi,bswybpslowbypfuo bpon
lkbyrwb lsqbeuyrb.ia”

“_LusbLu!_bNl.bqlo’ybdwpobylbswpxwbyrwb lsq?”bpsdliybirtuwfwqbGs.gwta

“UbdwpobyrpybewbqlberpywxwtbKsltpbyruofibgwiy,”btwmsuwqbFtpifuab“Ukbirw
ipnibylbswpxwbyrwb lsq,bew’ssbswpxwbuya”

“Yrpybewbql,”biwjloqwqbYrtljfa

“U’dbkltbuy,”bipuqbMwwgswiab“ErpywxwtbKsltpbipnib lwia”

YrwbImpouptqbolqqwqbruibpiiwoybi.sswosna

“Yrwbtwiyblkb.ibptwbpssbkltbuy,bGs.gwtabRlebpgl.ybnl.?”bpifwqbFtpifua

“Lbxwss—i.tw—ukbnl.bipnbil,”bipuqbGs.gwt,b“.oqbpibVlrobipnib‘.oqbrwtw
xwbpuo’yb.oqbxpy’ibqpya’”

“Poqbole,bKsltp,”bipuqbMwwgswi,b“nl.’twbyrwbgu b’.oabErpybnl.bipnb lwia
Erpy’ssbewbqlbowhy?”

“Xwtnbewss,”bipuqbyrwb uts;b“ewbirpssbjpdmbrwtwb.oyusbyrwiwbdwobptw
twiywq,bpoqbwptsnbyldlttlebew’ssbiyptybl.ybuoywssu woysnbpoq
iniywdpyujpssn,bpoqb wybdwpybkltbyrwdabEuyrbyrwutbrwsmbewbjpobqlbuya
Erwobyrwnbptwbtwiywqbpoqbewssbkwqbewbeussbiyptyblobp puobkltbyrwbjlpiy,
dlxuo bxwtnbislesn,bilbpibolybylbyutwbyrwdbyllbd.jrabYruibuibdnbkutiy
mspo,bg.ybuybpssbruo wib.mlobl.tbpgusuynbylb wybdwpyabUkbewbqlbolybkuoq
uybUbirpssbg.tnbyrwb lsqbrwtw,bpoqbewbeussbqlbl.tbgwiybylbtwpjrbyrw
jlpiybpibz.ujfsnbpibmliiugswabYrwtwbewbirpssbtwjt.uybowebmltywti—yeujw
pibdponbpibewbrpxwbole—poqbm.tjrpiwbwol. rbmtlxuiuloibylbjpttnb.ibuo
poqbl.ybp puoabPibewbjldwbgpjfbuo,bewbeussbjpjrwbmtlxuiuloibpybwxwtn
jpdmuo bmspjwbkltbl.tbtwy.tobytum,byr.ibipxuo byrwbowjwiiuynblkbjpttnuo 
rwpxnbslpqibpssbyrwbepnbuobpoqbl.ybp puoabUobyruibepnbewbjpobjldwbl.y
su ry,beuyrbyeujwbpibdponbmltywtibpibewbpjy.pssnbowwqabPoqbgnbeltfuo 
yrwdbuobirukyibewbeussbytpxwsbd.jrbkpiywtbpoqbyrwtwbeussbgwbol
 t.dgsuo abYrwiwbptwbdnbyelbmspoiabUbpdbolybpifuo bnl.berpybnl.byruofblk
yrwd,bgwjp.iwbUbqlbolybjptwabNl.brpxwbdpqwbdwbjruwk,bpoqbUbpdb luo byl
t.obyruibktldboleblobpibUbyruofbgwiya”

“G.ssnbkltbnl.,”btlptwqbMwwgswi;b“yrpy’ibyrwbfuoqblkbypsfbUbsufwibyl
rwpta”

“YwssbyrwbrwpqbdpobUbepoybylbiwwbrud,bJpts,”bipuqbyrwb uts,by.touo byl
Ftpifu,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbyrwbT.iiupobtwy.towqbeuyrbpbg.tsnbow tla

“Lepcp,”bipuqbyrwb uts,bpibyrwbgspjfbrpsywqbgwkltwbrwt,b“ewbptwbirltyblk
kllqbpoqbyrwbdwobptwbg.tqwowqbeuyrbslpqibyeujwbpibrwpxnbpibyrwnbirl.sq
jpttnabYwssbyrwdbyrpybewbirpssbepuybrwtwb.oyusbyrwnbptwbtwiywqbpoqbyrpy
yldlttlebewbirpssbpssb lbl.ybpoqbr.oybkltbdwpyabNl.beussbiwoqbnl.tbglni
l.yb.oqwtbyrtwwb llqbdwo,bpoqbyrwnbeussbpjybpibgwpywtibpoqbqtuxwbyrw
 pdwbuobylb.iabUobyruibepnbewbirl.sqb wybmswoynblkbdwpy,bpoqberwobyrw
dwobptwbtwiywqbpoqbewssbkwqbewbeussbdlxwblobislesnabErwtwb pdwbui
mswoyuk.sbewbeussbr.oybpoqbtwiyabYwssbyrwdbyrpybukbyrwnbqlbyruibpoqbew
twpjrbyrwbjlpiybuobipkwynbpoqbeuyrbpssbl.tbslpqi,bUbirpssbmpnbyrwdbyeujw
erpybyrwnbp twwqbylbjldwbklta”

“_Lu!bLu!_”bims.yywtwqbGs.gwt,b“yeujwbxpybqwnbp twwqbylbjldwbklt!bLr,
Ksltp,bxnbolyblkkwtbqwdbywobmwtbjwoy?bQlybxl.sqbgwbkuowbuoywtwiyblo
yrwutbdlowna”

“Ir.yb.m,bnl.bklls,”biopmmwqbFtpifu,bpoqbGs.gwtbi.giuqwq,byrl. rbrw
tljfwqbgpjfbpoqbkltyr,birpfuo bruibrwpqbuobquipmmtlxpsa

Yrwbgspjf,berlbrpqbmtwiwoywqbrudiwskbkltbyrwbuoywtxuwebeuyrbi.sswobpoq
ijlesuo bqwdwpolt,bgtu rywowqbxuiugsnboleab“Ubeussbywssbyrwd,”brwbipuq,
“poqbUbyruofbyrpybnl.beussbrpxwbolbdltwbytl.gswa”

“ llq,”bipuqbKsltp,b“ lbpoqbywssbyrwdbole,”bpoqbyrwbgspjfby.towqbpoq
swkya

“Yrwtw,”bipuqbyrwb uts,beuyrbpbiu rblkbtwsuwk,b“Ubgwsuwxwbyrpybewbjpo
iwwbsu rybprwpqbpybspiya”

“Yxujwbxpybxwbmtlduiwqbylbmpnbyrwd!”bgpeswqbGs.gwt,b“_Lu!bLu!_”

Wptsnbyrwbklssleuo bdltouo byrwnbmtwmptwqbylbiwybl.yb.mlobyrwbr.oyabYrw
gspjfibewtwbolebidusuo bpoqbrpmmnbuobpoyujumpyuloblkbmswoynblkbdwpy,bpoq
pibyrwnbytpdmwqblkkbuoylbyrwbv.o swbyrwnbewtwbiuo uo b pnsnabKsltpbrpq
quxuqwqbyrwdbuoylbyrtwwbmptyuwi,bwpjrb.oqwtbpbrwpqbdpo,beuyrbwhmsujuy
qutwjyuloibkltbyrwbmliuyulobwpjrbmptynbepibylbypfwbuobyrwbsuowblk
gwpywtiabLyrwtibrpqbgwwobqwypuswqbylbyrwberuywibpib .o-gwptwti,beruswbp
idpssbmptynblkbyrwbpifptubewtwbswkybgwruoqbylb .ptqbyrwbjpdmabYrw
eruywi,beuyrbyrwbwhjwmyuloblkbWiywgpo,bewtwbptdwqbeuyrbtukswiabRwbpslow
iwwdwqbuojsuowqbylbz.wiyulobKsltp’ibp.yrltuyn,buoiuiyuo byrpybrw
mtwkwttwqbylbr.oybeuyrbimwptbpoqbpttleibuobfwwmuo beuyrbyrwbmptybrwbepi
mspnuo abYrwbkpjybyrpy,byrl. rbrwbrpqbr.oywqbpiiuq.l.isnbkltbewwfi,bnwy
rpqbowxwtbgtl. rybuobpbiuo swbfuss,bepibolybi.kkujuwoybylbqpdmwobrui
w lyuidabIlb wo.uowsnbrpqbrwbwoywtwqbruibmptybyrpybrwbtwpssnbyrl. rybrw
epibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bpoqbeuyrbi.jrbkuqwsuynbrpqbrwbwz.ummwqbrudiwsk
uobwxwtnbqwypus,bpoqbi.jrbpbdpiywtblkbyrwbptyblkbdpfw-.mbepibrw,byrpy,
uobjlov.ojyulobeuyrbruibimswoquqbku .twbpoqbruibrpoqildwbkpjwbyrpybewtw
psdliybpbjl.oywtmptyblkbYptcpo’i,buybepibijptjwsnbylbgwbeloqwtwqbpybyrpy
rwbpsdliybkllswqbrudiwskbpibi.jjwiik.ssnbpibrwbrpqbkllswqblyrwti,bklt
yrwtwbewtwbdwobpdlo byrwbjpttuwtiberlbrpqbfoleobyrwb twpybpmw-dpo,bpoq
wxwobyrwiwbewtwbqwjwuxwq,byrl. rbyrwnbeloqwtwqbpybyrwbjrpo wbuobrud,
iuojwbuobsuyyswbyruo ibrwbquqbolybqwmltybrudiwskbpibYptcpo,bpoqbuobyrw
dpyywtblkbfussibrwbepibquipmmluoyuo a

KsltpbRpefwi,berlbepibwoqlewqbeuyrbdltwbyrpobpbkputbirptwblk
uoywssu wojw,btwpsucwqbyrpybuybel.sqbolybgwbewssbylbjtliibponblkbrwt
jldmpouloib.oowjwiiptusn,bpoqbilbirwbmwtduyywqbWiywgpobylbr.oybyrpy
dltouo buobruibleobepn,byrl. rbildwblkbyrwblyrwtib t.dgswqbpbsuyyswbpy
rwtbqwjuiuloa

“Erpybuibyrwbqukkwtwojw?”birwbpifwqbyrwd,bpkywtbyrwbImpouptqbrpqbiwybl.y
pslowab“Yrwbjrpojwibptwbyrpybrwbjl.sqb.iwbpbtukswbolbgwyywtbyrpobrwb.iwi
ruibimwptbpoqbpttleiabJptsbpoqbQujfbptwbtwpssnbyrwblosnbirlyibpdlo b.i,
poqbuybuib.mlobyrwdbewbqwmwoqbmtuojumpssnbkltbyrwbi.jjwiiblkbl.tbr.oy
ylqpnabWiywgpo’ibw lyuidbrpibgwwobilbgpqsnbg.dmwqbyrpybuybuibmliiugsw
yrpybrwbeussb lbylbyrwbspiybwhytwduynbylbdpfwbpbfussbylqpn—swyb.ibrlmw
yrpybrwbuibi.jjwiik.sa”

“Ubrlmwbrwbgtwpfibruibkllsbowjf,”bipuqbFtpifuab“Rwbrpibiwtxwqbl.t
m.tmliwbpoqbewbel.sqbgwbgwyywtblkkbukbewbewtwbtuqblkbruda”

Yrwb utsbirllfbrwtbrwpqbow pyuxwsnab“Ol,”birwbipuq,b“ewbd.iybolybyruof
ltbimwpfblkbponyruo blkbyrpybfuoqabEwbewoybuoylbyruibyruo byl wyrwt,bswy
.ibiyujfbyl wyrwtb.oyusbyrwbwoqabUkbnl.bptwbeuiruo byrpyblowblkb.ibui
qwpq,brlebqlbnl.bfolebyrpyblyrwtibptwbolybeuiruo byrpybnl.bewtwbqwpq?”

“Ubrpxwo’ybponbql.gybg.ybyrpybDutpoqpbeuirwibUbewtwbqwpq,”btwmsuwq
Ftpifuab“Ubowxwtb lbylbgwqbpybou rybeuyrl.ybyruofuo byrpybyrwbqpdowq
 twpiwtbdpnbytnbylbiyujfbpbfoukwbuoylbdwbgwkltwbdltouo abPoqbuybqlo’y
dpfwbdwbkwwsbponbfuoqwtbyleptqbrudbylbrwptbnl.bqwkwoquo brud,bKsltpa
Nl.’xwbgwwobpbguybilkyblobrudbktldbyrwbiyptya”

“UkbUbrpxw,buy’ibolowblkbnl.tbg.iuowii,”btwyltywqbyrwb utsa

Poqbilbyrwnbiyptywqbl.yb.mlobyrwutbr.oy,byrwbT.iiupobijlesuo bpoqbpo tn,
rptgltuo byrl. ryiblkbxwo wpojwbltbeltiwbp puoiybWiywgpo,bpoqbWiywgpo,
r.oyuo byrtl. rbyrwbv.o sw,bepibljj.muwqbeuyrbruibrpytwqbpoqbrui
vwpsl.inabRuibqptfbduoqbepiblmwobylbwxwtnbjrpojwbi.  wiyuloblkbpbdwpoi
kltbm.yyuo byrwblyrwtbdwoblkbyrwbmptynbl.yblkbyrwbepn,bpoqbypfuo byrw
eldpobpoqbyrwb lsqbkltbrudiwskabRwbrpywqbyrwdbpss;buobwpjrbrwbipebp
mliiugswbtuxpsbkltbyrwbpkkwjyuloiblkbKsltp,bpoqbuobyrwbqwpyrblkbwpjrbrw
ipebolyblosnblowbswiibi.uyltbkltbyrwb uts’ibpkkwjyuloi,bg.ybkltyn-yrtww
yrl.ipoqbpqquyulopsbml.oqibylbgwbquxuqwqbpdlo bkwewtbmwlmswabRuibduoq
epibyr.ibljj.muwqbylbyrwbwhjs.iuloblkbyrwbg.iuowiiblkbr.oyuo ,berujr
irl.sqbrpxwbljj.muwqbrudbilswsn,berwobrwbjpdwbyrtl. rbpbmpyjrblkbrwpxn
.oqwtgt.ir,bpoqbiywmmwqbuoylbyrwb sptuo bi.osu ryblkbpbspt wbjswptuo ,
kpjwbylbkpjwbeuyrbpbmptynblkbildwbkukynbdp oukujwoybwglobepttultiabKlt
v.iybpobuoiypoybWiywgpobiyllqbktlcwobuobpbmptpsniuiblkbywttlt,
klt wyyuo bdldwoyptusnbyrwbmptybrwbepibmspnuo —yruofuo blkbrudiwskblosn
pibpbslowberuywbdpobuobyrwbrwptyblkbipxp wbPktujpbkpjuo bpbspt wbgpoqblk
eptsufwbopyuxwi—jpoougpsi,bmwtrpmiabUybepibyrpybdldwoyblkb.yywtbiuswojw
poqbuopjyulobyrpybipxwqbrud,bklt,bpibrwbiyllqbyr.ibgwkltwbyrwd,byrw
Epcutubipebuobyrwbiuswoy,bdpvwiyujbku .twbyrwutbgwslxwqbsltqbuobp
jrptpjywtuiyujbmliwa

“LbGepop,bGepop,”bjtuwqblowblkbyrwbepttulti,bt.iruo bklteptq,b“uybui
uoqwwqbnl.,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bSltqblkbyrwbV.o sw,berldbewbrpqb uxwob.m
pibsliyabEw,bnl.tbkpuyrk.sbEpcutu,brpxwbgwwobiwptjruo bkltbnl.,bpoqbwxwo
olebewbewtwbpgl.ybylbqptwbyrwbqpo wtiblkbLmpt,bkwptuo byrpybnl.bdu ry
rpxwbxwoy.twqbyrwtwbeuyrl.yb.ibpoqbrpqbgwwobjpmy.twqa”

Yrwbgspjf,berlbrpqbpyblowbyudwbpjjldmpouwqbYptcpobylbSloqlobpibpbglqn
iwtxpoy,bimlfwbgtlfwobWo suir,bpobpjjldmsuirdwoyblkberujrbrwbepi
uoltquopywsnbmtl.q,bsliuo bolblmmlty.ouynbylbputbruibpyypuodwoybgwkltw
ruibswiibklty.opywbkwssleiabYrwbkpjybyrpybuybrpqbgwwobrwberldbkpywbrpq
jrliwobylbpjybpibimlfwidpobepibuoqwwqbpbklty.opywbjutj.diypojwbyl
DutpoqpabPsyrl. rbyrwbspyywtbrpqbpmmsuwqbrudiwskbpiiuq.l.isnbyl
dpiywtuo byrwbqupswjyblkbyrwbewiybjlpiybjpttuwti,brwbel.sqbrpxwbgwwo
rptqbm.ybylbuybylbjpttnblobpbjloxwtipyulobeuyrblowblkbyrwd,beruswbrw
.oqwtiyllqbolyruo blkbyrwbEpcutubylo .wabKsltpbrpqbijrllswqbrud
jptwk.ssnbpoqbewssbuobyrwbsltwblkbYptcpo,bilbyrpybrwbtwpsucwqbolebyrpy
rwbepibuobyrwbmtwiwojwblkbpbgpoqblkbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibkpuyrk.sbEpcutuabOwxwt
gwkltwbrpqbrwbiwwobi.jrbdp oukujwoybgspjfi—jswpo-j.y,bmlewtk.sbdwo,
euyrbuoywssu woybkpjwibpoqbewssbdlsqwqbkwpy.twi,bpmmwptuo bpibd.jr
ru rwtbuobyrwbijpswblkbwxls.yulobpibewtwbyrwbewiybjlpiybgspjfibpglxwbyrw
pmwiabS.jfnbuoqwwqbepibWiywgpobDutpoqpbyrpybrwbepibz.ujfbeuyywqbpoqbp
jloi.ddpywbpjyltabLyrwteuiwbd.iybrwbrpxwbgwytpnwqbruibywttltbpoqbrui
jrp tuob.mlobswptouo byrpybyruibgpoqblkbYptcpo’ibkuwtjwbpoqbkpuyrk.s
klsslewtibepibuobyruibmptyblkbyrwbjl.oytnabKltbpbdldwoybslo wtbrwbiyllq
uobiuswojwbgwkltwbyrwd,b pyrwtuo bruibeuyi,bpoqbyrwobrwbimlfw,btwpsucuo 
yrpybruibxwtnbsukwbqwmwoqwqb.mlobruibmsp.iugusuynabPoqbpibrwbyrl. rybp
 twpybsu rybgtlfwb.mlobyrwbirtweqbgtpuoblkbyrwb.oijt.m.sl.ibImpouptqa

“IuojwbUbspiybipebnl.,”brwbipuq,b“Ubquijlxwtwqbyrpybpbmptynblkberuywbdwo
rpqbwoywtwqbyrwbjl.oytnbkltbyrwbm.tmliwblkbtlgguo byrwbytwpi.twbxp.syi
lkbLmptabUbklsslewqbyrwdb.oyusbUbkl.oqbyrwutbjpdm,bpoqbyrwobUbjpdwbuo
iwptjrblkbnl.,bkltbyrwtwbptwbdponblkbyrwdbpoqbyrwnbrpxwbdponbuo lyiblk
 lsq,bkltbyrwnbrpxwbpstwpqnbgwwobylbLmptabKlsslebdw,bpoqbewbeussbtpuq
yrwutbjpdmbpoqbypfwbyrwb lsqbktldbyrwdabJldw!”bpoqbrwby.towqbgpjfbyleptq
yrwbjpdmbyrpybrwbrpqbv.iybz.uyywqa

Pibyrwnbdpqwbyrwutbepnbpslo byrwbv.o swbytpus,b.i.sp,byrwbEpcutuberlbrpq
imlfwobWo suirbylbrud,bepsfwqbpybWiywgpo’ibiuqwabGwruoqbyrwdbyrw
Impouptqbjl.sqbrwptbyrwblyrwtbepttultibimwpfuo buobyrwutbopyuxwbylo .w,
olbeltqblkberujrbrwb.oqwtiyllq,bpoqbuybljj.ttwqbylbrudbyrpybruibmliuyulo
el.sqbgwbdliybwdgpttpiiuo birl.sqbrwbgwbpqqtwiiwqbuobyrwbEpcutu
spo .p w,berujr,blkbjl.tiw,bYptcpobd.iybrpxwb.oqwtiyllqbmwtkwjysnabPibrw
suiywowqbylbyrwbjrpyywtblkb.i.spbruibduoqbepibeltfuo btpmuqsn,bpoq
mtwiwoysn,bpibyrl. rbuybewtwbpobuoimutpyulo,byrwtwbtwj.ttwqbylbrudbyrw
dwdltnblkbpobpjjuqwoybyrpybrpqbgwkpsswobYptcpo,berujrbrpqbgwwobopttpywq
ylbrudbgnbKsltp—yrwbiyltnblkbyrwbuov.tnbrwbrpqbtwjwuxwqbuobyrwbytwpi.tw
xp.syiblkbLmptb.mlobyrwbljjpiulobyrpybrwbrpqbsliybruibdwdltnbgwjp.iwblk
pbgsleb.mlobyrwbrwpqabWiywgpobeloqwtwqbukbrwbrpqbjldduyywqbrudiwskbyll
qwwmsnbpybkutiybylbpyytug.ywbylbpdowiupbponbirltyjlduo ibuobyrw
mltytpnpsblkbyrwbtôswbrwbepibpjyuo abPybuyibeltiy,brlewxwt,buybiwwdwqbyl
rudbyrwbgwiybyrpybrwbjl.sqbqlabRwby.towqbi.qqwosnb.mlob.i.spa

“Qlbnl.btwdwdgwt,”brwbpifwq,b“yrwbpjjuqwoybyrpybgwkwssbdwbuobyrw
ytwpi.twbxp.syiblkbLmpt,bqwmtuxuo bdwblkbdnbdwdltn?”

“Nwi,bGepop,bUbtwdwdgwtbuybewss,”btwmsuwqbyrwbgspjfa

“Pbiudusptbpjjuqwoybrpibgwkpsswobdw,”bipuqbWiywgpoab“Pb twpybytwwbkwss
uobdnbmpyr,bpoqbuobkpssuo bpbgtpojrbiyt.jfbdwb.mlobyrwbrwpqabUybrpiboly
jp.iwqbdwbylbsliwbdnbdwdltnbwoyutwsn,bg.ybiuojwbyrwobuybuibeuyr
qukkuj.synbyrpybUbtwjpssbdponbyruo i,bpoqbyrwtwbptwblyrwtiberujrbUbd.iy
rpxwbklt lyywobwoyutwsn,bkltbUbqlbolybfolebnl.tbopdw,boltbqlbU
.oqwtiypoqbyrwbeltqibyrpybdnblyrwtbEpcutubptwbimwpfuo bpgl.ybdwa”

.i.spbsllfwqbpybrudbjldmpiiulopywsnab“Pr,bGepop,bipqbuoqwwqbuibyrwbrwpty
lkb.i.spbylbrwptbyrpybyruibpjjuqwoybrpibgwkpsswobnl.abQl.gyswiibuybeuss
illobmpiibpepnbpibquqbyrwblyrwt,bpoqbuobyrwbdwpoyudwbU,b.i.sp,beussbgw
nl.tbdwdltnbkltbnl.a”

“ llq,”bipuqbWiywgpo,b“ywssbyrwblyrwtibyrpybyrwnbdpnb.oqwtiypoq,bpoq
ywssbyrwdbpsilbyrpybUbrpxwbsliybyrwbdwdltnblkblyrwtbyruo ibgwiuqwiabU
jl.sqbolybolebkuoqbdnbepnbrldwbeuyrl.ybnl.,bpoqbdnblyrwtbiwoiwibptwbq.ss
pibewssabG.ybpibnl.bipn,b.i.sp,buybeussbillobmpiiblkk,bpoqbUbirpssbgw
dniwskbp puoa”

“Nl.tbkpuyrk.sbEpcutubeussbtwvlujwbuoqwwqbeuyrbyrwbjlduo blkbyrpy
dldwoy,”bipuqb.i.spa

Pibyrwnbpmmtlpjrwqbyrwbjpdm,bDutpoqpbjp.yulowqb.i.spbylbeptobrui
klsslewtibylbiuswojw,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbrwbrpsywqbyrwdbpybyrwbl.yifutyiblk
yrwbjswptuo berwtwbyrwnbjl.sqbpyypuobpbxuweblkbyrwbgldpbpoqbyrwbywoyi,
 .ptquo berujrbepibpbsuyyswbgpoqblkbpbrpsk-qlcwobpifptua

“Erwobyrwnbiwwbl.tb twpywtbo.dgwtibyrwnbeussbdpfwbolbtwiuiypojw,”bipuq
Wiywgpoab“Swyb.ibi.ttl.oqbyrwbjpdm,byrwtwkltw,bpoqbpybpbiu opsbktldbdw
ewbeussbpqxpojwbyl wyrwt,berwobnl.birpssbpqqtwiibyrwd,bipnuo byrpy
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibjldwibeuyrbruibEpcutubkltbyrwb lsqbyrwnbrpxwbiylswo,
g.ybyrpybrwbeussbimptwbyrwdbukbyrwnbeussbswpxwbyrwbjl.oytnbpyblojwbpoq
owxwtbtwy.toa”

Rpqbuybk.skusswqbruibm.tmliwbpibewss,byrwbImpouptqbel.sqbrpxwbeussuo sn
ltqwtwqbruibEpcutubylbkpssb.mlobyrwbdwob .ptquo byrwbjpdmbpoqbqwiytln
yrwdbpss,bg.ybylbruibj.oouo bgtpuobrpqbgwwobgltobpbjswxwtwtbijrwdwabRw
epoywqbyrwiwbdwobylbiwwbrudbeuyrbyrwbEpcutubpoqbylbsuxwbylbywssbyrw
lyrwtibyrpybyrwnbrpqbiwwobrud,bpoqbylbtwmwpybylbKsltpbpoqbrwtbklsslewti
yrwbyruo byrpybWiywgpobrpqbuobruibduoqbylbywssblowblkbyrwbpifptu,berusw
yrwbEpcutubewtwb pyrwtuo b.mbyrwb lsqbuo lyibktldbyrwbjpdma

Uobqutwjyuo b.i.spbylbiypyulobruibdwobpgl.ybyrwbjpdm,bWiywgpobrpqbrud
eptobyrwdbyrpybyrwnbewtwbolybylbirlebyrwdiwsxwib.oyusbrwbrpqbjtwmybl.y
uoylbyrwbjswptuo bpoqbpyytpjywqbyrwbpyywoyuloblkbyrwbpifptublob .ptqa
Kukywwobduo.ywi,bmwtrpmi,bewtwbjloi.dwqbuobiypyulouo bruibdwo,bpoqbyrwo
.i.spbtwy.towqbylbWiywgpobylbtwmltybyrpybpssbepibtwpqna

“ErwobUbtpuiwbdnbrpoqbyrwobnl.beussbfolebyrpybyrwnbrpxwbtwjl oucwqbdw
poqbyrpybnl.bptwbylbpqxpojw,”bWiywgpobjp.yulowqbrud,bpoqbiywmmwqbklteptq
islesnbuoylbyrwbjswptuo abLowblkbyrwbpifptubipebrudbpoqbtwjl oucwqbrud
pibWiywgpoabYrwbImpouptqbyllfbpbkwebiywmibjsliwtbylbyrwbgldpbpoqbyrwo
rpsywqa

“UbpdbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”brwbipuq;b“nl.tbjpdmbuibwoyutwsnbi.ttl.oqwqbgn
dnbepttultiabDpfwbolbdlxwbp puoiyb.ibpoqbewbirpssbolybr.tybnl.a”

RwbepxwqbruibrpoqabKukynbiypseptybEpcutubiywmmwqbuoylbxuwebktldbyrw
jlojwpsuo bxwtq.twblkbyrwbi.ttl.oquo bv.o swabYrwbpifptubwnwqbyrwdbuo
uss-jlojwpswqbywttlt,bkuo wtuo byrwutbtukswibowtxl.isna

“Qlbolybirlly,”bjp.yulowqbWiywgpo,b“ltbewbirpssbispnbnl.bpssa”bRw
pmmtlpjrwqbdltwbjsliwsnbpoqbruibEpcutubjsliwqbuobpgl.ybrud,bwoyutwsn
i.ttl.oquo byrwbgldpa

“Imwpfbylbyrwd,b.i.sp,”bipuqbWiywgpoabYrwbgspjfbiywmmwqbklteptqa

“EwbptwbyrwbEpcutu,”brwbjtuwq,b“poqbyruibuibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bSltqblk
yrwbV.o sw,bl.tbdpiywtabEwbrpxwbjldwbylbtwjlxwtbyrwb lsqblkbYptcpobyrpy
nl.brpxwbiylswobktldbyrwbytwpi.twbxp.syiblkbLmptabYruibyudwbewbirpss
imptwbnl.blobjloquyulobyrpybnl.bswpxwbyrwbjl.oytnbpoqbowxwtbtwy.toabYwss
yruibeltqbylbnl.tbdpiywti;bywssbyrwdbyrpybYptcpobepyjrwi,bpoqbyrpybrui
EpcutubepyjrbeuyrbrudabSpnbqleobnl.tbtukswia”

Yrwbpifptu,b spqbylbwijpmwbilbwpiusn,bjldmsuwqbeuyrbyrwbqwdpoqiblk
.i.sp,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbyrwbEpcutubrpqbwoywtwqbyrwbgldp,bpoqbpy
Wiywgpo’ibqutwjyulobewtwb pyrwtuo b.mbyrwb lsqwobuo lyiabPibyrwnbeltfwq,
Wiywgpobpmmtlpjrwqblowblkbyrwbpifptu,berldbrwbfowebimlfwbgtlfwobWo suira

“Ywssbnl.tbdpiywt,”brwbipuq,b“ylb uxwbyrpofibkltbyrwbdwtjnblkbYptcpoberl
rpibwhpjywqbpbylssblkbg.yblowbsukwbkltbyruibuoxpiuloblkbruibjl.oytnbpoq
yrwkyblkbruibytwpi.twabYrwbjtwpy.twberlbmtwi.dwibylbmliwbpibYptcpobU
rpxwbispuo,bpoqbruibglqnbUbirpssbypfwbpepnbeuyrbdwbpoqbkwwqbylbyrw
suloiabYwssbyrwdbyrpybYptcpobklt uxwibwxwobyrwutbpyywdmybylbmluilobrud
.mlobyrwbljjpiulobyrpybrwbxuiuywqbyrwutbjpdm,bg.yblosnb.mlobyrw
jloquyulobyrpybyrwnbowxwtbtwy.tobylbPktujp,bpoqbyrpybyrwnbqux.s wbyrw
iwjtwyblkbLmptbylbolblyrwtiabYptcpobepyjrwibpoqbruibEpcutubepyjr,bpoqbol
dpobdpnbwoywtbPktujpbeuyrl.ybYptcpo’ibfoleswq wabWxwobgwkltwbyrwnbswky
SloqlobUbfowebyrpybyrwnbewtwbjlduo abYwssbyrwdbyrpya”

Uybyllfbg.ybpbkwebduo.ywibkltbyrwbEpcutubylb pyrwtb.mbyrwb lsqwobuo lyi,
poqbgwkltwbyrwbpifptubrpqbtwjlxwtwqbktldbyrwbi.tmtuiwblkbyrwut
pmmwptpojw,byrwnbrpqb lowbp puobuoylbyrwbv.o sw,beuyrbYptcpo,byrwut
dpiywta

UybepibspywbuobyrwbpkywtollobgwkltwbKsltpbpoqbyrwbkl.tberuywbdwo
twy.towqbktldbyrwutbr.oy,bi.ttl.oqwqbgnbrpmmn,bsp. ruo bgspjfi,bgwptuo 
yrwbkt.uyiblkbpbi.jjwiik.sbjrpiwa

“Olebyrpybnl.bptwbuobjrpt w,bKsltp,”bFtpifubepibipnuo ,b“klty.owbui
idusuo b.mlob.ibuoqwwqabEwbrpxwbwol. rbdwpybrwtwbkltbiwxwtpsbqpni,bpoq
euyrbmswoynblkbdwpybuobyrwutbgwssuwibyrwnbl. rybylbdpfwb llqbmtl twiia”

“Ubxussbipnbuybdniwskbqlyby’uo ibsllfbgtu rywt,”bipuqbGs.gwta

“Gsudw,byrwnbqlbyrpy,”bipuqbYrtljfab“U’dbywssuo’bn.bKsltp’ibpbgtu ry
lowa”

“Erpybyrwbqwxusbuibyrui?”bqwdpoqwqbMwwgswi,b“erpy’ibetlo beuyrbyrwd
gw  ptia”bPoqbrwbmluoywqbyleptqbyrwbgldpberujrbepibolebuobiu ry,bpoq
ktldberujrbyrwbpifptubewtwbuii.uo bpybpbt.o,bvpggwtuo bwhjuywqsnbpibyrwn
tpjwqbyleptqbyrwda

“YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibrpibgwwobrwtw,”byrwnbjtuwqbwhjuywqsnab“Rwbrpibgwwo
rwtwbeuyrbpssbruibEpcutu—pbyrl.ipoqb twpybepttulti—poqbyrl. rbew
kl. ry,byrwnblxwtjpdwb.i,bpoqbypfuo byrwb lsqbyrwnbewoybpepnabYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwibimlfwbiytpo wbeltqibylbdwbgwkltwbyrwnbswkyabRwbipuqbyrpybrwbrpq
fusswqblowblkbnl.tbo.dgwtberlbrpqbqptwqbylbjpssbrudiwskbYptcpoblkbyrw
PmwiabEwbqlbolyb.oqwtiypoqbuyabRwbewoybpepnbpslowbylbr.oyberwobnl.bewoy
uobyrwbdltouo ,bpoqbrwbjpdwbgpjfbirltysnbeuyrbpbyrl.ipoqbepttulti,bpoq
rwbyllfbpssbyrwb lsqbpoqbrwbyrtwpywowqbylbfussb.ibpoqbnl.bukbnl.bwxwt
twy.tobylbyruibjl.oytnbp puoa”

“Xly,bxly?”bjtuwqbGs.gwt,b“qwtb lsqbuiib low?b_Lu!bLu!_”bPoqbyrwobyrwn
pssbjlddwojwqbylbpifbz.wiyuloibpyblojwb.oyusbKsltpbiuswojwqbyrwda

“Jldw,”birwbipuqbylbyrwbswpqwtblkbyrwbpifptu,b“ewbeussbtwy.tobylbyrw
gldpbpoqbyrwobnl.birpssbywssbdwbislesnbpoqbjptwk.ssnbpssbyrpybrpi
rpmmwowqbiuojwbewbswkya”

Irwbsuiywowqbuoywoysnbylbruibopttpyuxw,bpoqbyrwobz.wiyulowqbrud
jptwk.ssnb.mlobxptul.ibmluoyibiwxwtpsbyudwiabPybspiybirwbquiduiiwqbruda
Yrwobirwby.towqbylbrwtbjlokwqwtpywia

“Uybuibpssbjswptbylbdw,”birwbipuqab“Yptcpobtwjlxwtwqbktldbyrwbwkkwjyiblk
yrwbqt. bewbpqduouiywtwqabYrwobrwbklsslewqb.ibeuyrbruibEpcutu,bjp. ry
Wiywgpobpoqbfusswqbrudbpoq,bkuoquo byrwbjpdm,brpibypfwobyrwb lsqbpepna
Ewbirpssbgwbklty.opywbuoqwwqbukbewbwijpmwbktldbPktujpbeuyrbl.tbsuxwia”

“_Lu!bLu!_”bpsdliybirtuwfwqbGs.gwt,b“qwtbqutynbjtllfabRwbiywpsibpssbl.t
 lsq,b.oqbxwbsliwbl.tbyelby’l.ipoqbml.oqibuoylbyrwbgpt puoab_Lu!bLu!_”

“Ir.yb.m,bnl.bqutynbVwe,”b tleswqbYrtljfab“Ukbuybrpqo’ybp’bgwwobkltbnl.
poqbyrwbqp lbyruib’wtwbyruo bel.sqbowxwtbpb’pmmwowqabEuyrb’udbpgtp  uo’
pgl.yb’uib’.oyuo bpoqbolybgwuo’bpgswbylbfussbponyruo ,bpoqbnl.
p-iz.wwcuo’bwxwtnbgsllduo’brpmwoon,bew’twbuobpbtlyywobdwii—yrpybewbptwa
Yruib’wtwbYptcpobgl.oqwtbrwbg.dmwqblkkbWiywgpo,berujrbuibyrwbgwiybeltf
erpyb’wbwxwtbqlowabYllbgsllqnbgpqbnl.bewtwo’yb’wtwbylb wybuybyll,bpoq
erpybUb lybpb llqbduoqbylbqlbuibylbisuybnl.tbyrtlpybdwiwska”

“Iylebyrwb .kk,bQujf,”btlptwqbMwwgswi;b“uybepio’ybolglqn’ibkp.sy,bpibkpt
pibUbjpobiwwabUoiywpqblkbypsfuo’berpybewbl. rywtbqlbuibylb lbpkywtbyrui
’wtwbYptcpobkwsswtbpoqbypfwbyrwbgsllduo’b lsqbpepnbktldb’uda”

KsltpbRpefwibsp. rwqab“Ewbrpxwo’ybpbjrpojwbuobyrwbeltsq,”birwbipuqab“U
folebyruibYptcpobgslfwabUkbrwbepibpssbpslowbewbel.sqo’ybgwbpbdpyjrbklt
rud,bg.ybrw’ib lybpbg.ojrblkbruibEpcutubeuyrbrud,bpoqbyrwtwbptwbolbkuowt
epttultibuobPktujpbyrpobyrwnabPoqbyrwn’qbku rybkltbrudbylbyrwbspiybdpoa
Nl.bv.iybywssbLepcpbyrpybnl.’twbyruofuo blkb luo bpkywtbYptcpoblkbyrw
PmwibpoqbruibEpcutubylbypfwbyrwb lsqbpepnbktldbyrwd,bpoqbiwwbrlebslo 
uy’qbgwbgwkltwbewbel.sqo’ybrpxwbpbiuo swbou  wtbeuyrb.iabYrwbxwtnbopdw
lkbYptcpobijptwibyrwiwbewiybjlpiybgspjfibl.yblkbpbnwpt’ib tleyrabYrwn
el.sqbillowtbkpjwbyrwbqwxusabOl,biut,bew’xwbsliy,bpoqbpssbewbjpobqlbui
ylb wybl.yblkbyrwbjl.oytn,bpoqbyrpofbl.tbs.jfnbiyptibukbewbdpop wbylb wy
l.ybpsuxwabYrwbpmw-dpobeussbepyjrb.iabUbirl.sqbolybgwbi.tmtuiwqbukbrw
ewtwbepyjruo b.ibyruibduo.ywa”bRwtbjldmpouloibsllfwqbptl.oq
pmmtwrwoiuxwsnbpybyrui,bjpiyuo bowtxl.ib spojwibyleptqbyrwbv.o swab“Poq
rw’qbowxwtbswyb.ib wybgpjfbylbLmptbkltbpolyrwtbslpq,bwxwobukbewbjl.sq
mtwxpusb.mlobl.tbgspjfibylbtwy.tobyrwtwa”

“Yelby’l.ipoqbml.oqi,byelby’l.ipoqbml.oqi!”bepuswqbGs.gwtab“.oqbpssbqui
i.uy,bxlybuybjliybdwbyxwoynb .uowpibxlybUbjpo’ybxwptbuybp puobuobWo spoq
.oswiibUb lbylbpbkpojnbqtwiibgpss,bxujrbUbowxwtbqla”

Ftpifubrpqbolybimlfwo,bg.ybrpqbipybeuyrbwnwib.mlobyrwb tl.oq,bsuiywouo 
ylbyrwblyrwtiabOlebrwbtpuiwqbruibrwpqab“Ewbrpxwbsliybl.tb lsq,”brwbipuq,
“poqbgwkltwbewb wybgpjfbylbWo spoqbewbiypoqbylbimwoqbyrwbgpspojwblkbl.t
yelbyrl.ipoqbml.oqi—uoblyrwtbeltqibl.tbwhmwquyulobuibpbylypsbsliiabYrw
twiyblkbnl.bdpnbgwbipyuikuwqbylb lbgpjfbgtlfw,bg.ybUbpdbolyabYrwtwbptw
lyrwtbyruo ibuobPktujpbgwiuqwibyrwb lsqblkbLmpt,bpoqberwobewbswpxwbyrw
jl.oytnbyrwtwbuibolbtwpilobernbewbirl.sqo’ybypfwbildwyruo beuyrb.ibyrpy
eussbtwmpnb.ibkltbl.tbyudwbpoqbuoxwiydwoya”

“Erpybqlbnl.bdwpo?”bpifwqbMwwgswia

“Ubrpxwbimwoybpbslyblkbyudwbypsfuo beuyrbLepcp,”btwmsuwqbFtpifu,b“ytnuo 
ylbswptobyrwutbjtpcnbspo .p w,bpoqbUbrpxwbjldwbylbkuoqbl.ybpbslybpgl.y
yrwblsqbxusspuoabRw’ibpibjtllfwqbpibyrwnbdpfwb’wd,bpoqbukbrwbewtwbylbgw
rpo wqbkltbpssbruibd.tqwti,brw’qbrpxwbylbrpxwbdltwbsuxwibyrpobpbjpy,bg.y
olyeuyriypoquo bpssbyrpy,brw’ibpbirtweqblsqbkwssle,bpoqbU’xwbswptowqbp
slybdltwbktldbrudbyrpobv.iybruibdlofwnbypsf—Ubrpxwbswptowqbwol. r,buo
kpjy,bilbyrpybUbkwwsbipkwbuobipnuo byrpybukbewbiyujfbyl wyrwtbewbjpob l
l.yblkbPktujpbeuyrbpbmtwyynb llqbiucwqbiypfwabMwtilopssn,bUbrpxwo’y
 uxwob.mbyrwb lsqblkbLmptbnwyabErpybew’xwbsliy,bew’xwbsliy,bg.ybyrwtw’i
mswoynbswkyberwtwbyrpybjpdwbktld,bpoqbildwbqpn,bpkywtbyruibgsleiblxwt,
U’dbjlduo bgpjfbylb wybdnbirptwa”

“G.ybrlebpgl.ybyruiblyrwtbyruo ?”bpifwqbKsltpab“RlebjpobLepcpbrwsmb.i?”

“Yrwtw’ibpbsuyyswbg.ojrblkbPtpgibqleobrwtw,”bwhmspuowqbFtpifu,b“iywpsuo 
ispxwibpoqbuxltnabLepcpbfoleiberwtwbyrwnbptwbeltfuo bpoqberwtwbyrwut
dpuobjpdmbuiabYrwtwbptwblosnbpbkweblkbyrwd,bpoqbyrwutbgspjfibptwbowptsn
pssbispxwiberlbel.sqby.toblobyrwdbuobpbduo.ywabOlebyrwbuqwpbuibyrui:bew
rpxwbpbgu bwol. rbmptynbylblxwtmlewtbyrwdbpoqbypfwbyrwutbuxltnbpepnbktld
yrwdbukbewbjpob wybyrwutbispxwibylbypfwbl.tbiuqwabEwbqlo’ybepoybyrw
ispxwi;bewbjl.sqo’ybqlbponyruo beuyrbyrwdbukbewbrpqbyrwd,bilbewbjpo
mtlduiwbyrwdbyrwutbktwwqldbkltbyrwutbrwsm,bpoqb uxwbLepcpbpoqbruib po bp
irptwbuobyrwbuxltna”

“Rlebqlbnl.bfolebLepcpbeussbrwsmb.i?”bpifwqbKsltpa

“Yrwbuqwpbuibrui;byrpy’ibyrwbtwpilobUbfole,”btwmsuwqbFtpifua

“Uybil.oqib llqbylbdw,”bipuqbMwwgswi;b“Ubpuo’ybkwtb luo’b’ldwbwdmyn
’poqwqa”bPoqbuoby.tobyrwblyrwtibiu oukuwqbyrwutbpmmtlxpsblkbyrwbijrwdwa




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbIYTPO WbUOJWOIWbG.TOI


PIbYptcpobjpttuwqbyrwbqwpqbGls poubktldbyrwbxussp wblkbyrwb ldpo pou,brw
iwybruibiywmibuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbg.usquo brwbrpqbiwwobktldbyrwbtud
lkbyrwbxpsswn,byrwbj.tuliuynblkbyrwbdpoblxwtjlduo byrwbopy.tpsbjp.yulo
lkbyrwbgwpiyabRwbepibytpxwsuo b.mbeuoqbpoqbyrwblqltibepkywqbqleobylbrui
oliytusibylsqbrudbyrpybrwbepibpmmtlpjruo byrwbrpguypyblkbyrwbGls poua
Uoywtduo swqbeuyrbyrwbijwoybimlltblkbyrwb ltussp-dwobepibyrpyblk
 ldpo poubpoqbyrwblqltblkbjllfwqbkllq,bpoqbyrwbi.  wiyuloblkbpbrwpxusn
iewwybijwoy,berujrbyrwbpmw-dpobjl.sqbjloowjyblosnbeuyrbg.touo buojwoiw,
yrl. rbuybiwwdwqbudmliiugswbyrpybi.jrbpbktp tpojwbjl.sqbwdpopywbktldbyrw
qewssuo iblkbyrwbGls pouabMwtrpmibuybjpdwbktldbyrwb twpybwqukujwbrwbrpq
iwwo—pbg.usquo berujrbd.iybrpxwbgwwobjloiyt.jywqbgnbr.dpobgwuo i,bpoq
uoberujrbr.dpobgwuo ibdu rybiyussbqewss,byrl. rbowxwtbpdlo byrw
d.syuy.quol.iblqltibyrpybpiipuswqbruiboliytusibquqbrwblojwbjpyjrbyrw
kpuoywiybi.  wiyuloblkbyrwbdpobijwoyblkberuywia

Erwobrwbmwtjwuxwqbktldbyrwbuojtwpiuo biytwo yrblkbyrwutblqlt,byrpybrw
epibpmmtlpjruo bjsliwbylbyrwbGls pou,bYptcpobyllfbylbyrwbytwwibeuyrbrui
g.tqwo,byrpybrwbdu rybyr.ibiypoqbpbgwyywtbjrpojwblkbpxluquo bquijlxwtn,
poqbmtwiwoysn,byrtl. rbyrwbklsup wbprwpq,brwbipebpbslkynbepss,bpoq,
gwnloq,byrwbl.ysuowiblkbyrwbewutqbptjruywjy.twblkbpbiytpo wbpoq
dniywtul.ibmusw—l.ysuowibyrpybi.  wiywqbpbg.usquo blkbpolyrwtbeltsq,bil
.owptyrsnbewtwbyrwn,bpoqbktldbgwnloqbyrwbepssbjpdwbyrwblqltblkbyrw
Gls poubpoqbyrwbktp tpojwblkbyrwbuojwoiw,buoywtduo swqbeuyrbyrwbijwoy
imlltblkbO.dp,byrwbsuloabYrwbv.o swbepibjswptwqbpepnbkltbkukynbkwwy
l.yiuqwbyrwbepssbi.ttl.oquo byrwbg.usquo ,bilbyrpybyrwtwbepibolbytww
lxwtrpo uo byrwbepss,bg.ybYptcpobpmmtlpjrwqbpibjsliwsnbpibrwbjl.sq,
eruswbiyussbtwdpuouo btwpilopgsnbewssbjlojwpswqbgnbyrwbklsup wabRwbrpq
jrliwobpbmluoybpybpbi.kkujuwoybrwu rybpglxwbyrwb tl.oqbylbmwtduybrudbyl
iwwblxwtbyrwbylmblkbyrwbepssa

Yrwbg.usquo beuyruobyrwbwojsli.twbepiblkb twpybiucw,buyibqukkwtwoybmptyi
pmmwptuo bylbrpxwbgwwobjloiyt.jywqbpybxptul.ibmwtulqi,bpoqbwpjrbeuyr
.yywtbquitw ptqbylb.oukltduyn,btwi.syuo buobpbjlo sldwtpyuloblk
jloowjyuo bg.usquo ibpoqbylewti,bolbyelblkberujrbewtwbpsufw,byrl. rbyrw
erlswbmtwiwoywqbpbtpyrwtbmswpiuo ,bukbildwerpybgucpttwbpmmwptpojwabYrw
g.usquo biyllqb.mlobpobptyukujupsbwswxpyulobpgl.ybywobkwwybru r,
i.ttl.oqwqbgnbpbtwypuouo bepssblkb tpouyw,bpbeuqwbiyputjpiwbswpquo byl
yrwb tl.oqbswxwsbgwsleabPgl.ybyrwbg.usquo bewtwbirt.ggwtnbpoqbytwwi,
ildwblkbyrwbspyywtbpmmwptuo bylbgwblkb twpybpoyuz.uyn,beruswblow
woltdl.ibylewtbepibpsdliybwoyutwsnbjlxwtwqbgnbuxnabGnbkptbyrwbdliy
twdptfpgswbkwpy.twblkbyrwbg.usquo ,brlewxwt,bspnbuobuyibtujrbpoq
gptgptujbltopdwoypyuloabIwybuoylbyrwbmlsuirwqb tpouywblkberujrbuybepi
jldmliwqbepibpobuoytujpywbdlipujblkb lsqbpoqbqupdloqi;b suyywtuo biylowi
uobjl.oyswiibyrl.ipoqibijuoyusspywqbktldbkpçpqwi,bduoptwyi,bqldwi,bpoq
ylewtia

Yrwbwojsli.tw,berujrbjldmtuiwqbildwbkukywwobltbyewoynbpjtwi,bepi
ljj.muwqbkltbyrwbdliybmptybgnbyrwbg.usquo abYrwbywttpjwb.mloberujrbuy
iyllqbepibqwxlywqbylbepsfi,bkslewti,birt.gi,bpoqbltopdwoypsbytwwi,berusw
yrpybmptyblkbyrwbptwpbgwsle,berujrbepibeuyruobyrwbtpo wblkbYptcpo’i
xuiulo,biwwdwqbylbgwb uxwoblxwtbylbyrwbtpuiuo blkb ptqwobyt.jfabUobyrw
 ptqwobpoqb.mlobyrwbywttpjwbewtwbopfwqbgspjfi,bi.jrbpibrwbrpqbiwwobuo
yrwbxussp wberwtwbrwbrpqbswkybSpabYrwtwbewtwbglyrbdwobpoqbeldwo,bpoq
yrwiwbewtwbljj.muwqbeuyrbyrwbjptwblkb tleuo byruo ibeuyruobyrw
wojsli.twabPdlo byrwdbewtwbiwxwtpsblkbyrwb ltussp-sufwbjtwpy.twibi.jrbpi
Yptcpobrpqbispuobuobyrwbxussp w,bg.ybyrwiwbmwtkltdwqbolbspglt,bqwxlyuo 
yrwdiwsxwi,btpyrwt,buybiwwdwq,bylbqutwjyuo byrwbeltfblkbyrwbgspjfi,
yleptqberldbyrwutbdpoowtbepibrp. rynbpoqbqlduowwtuo ,bildwyudwibwxwo
gt.ypsabYrwiwb ltussp-dwobewtwbytpmmwqbuobtujrbltopdwoyi,biudusptbyl
yrliwb.mlobyrwbglqnberujrbolebtwiywqbuobpbjtlyjrblkbyrwbytwwbgwruoqbyrw
pmw-dpoa

PibYptcpobepyjrwqbeuyrbuoywtwiybyrwbijwowbgwslebrud,byelbGls poubwdwt wq
ktldbyrwbdpuobwoytpojw,bpbr. wbmltyps,bildwbyrutynbkwwybuobeuqyr,bpoq
mwtrpmibkukywwobkwwybru rabYrwbyelbeltwbrwpq-gpoqi,bi.mmltyuo bypss,
eruywbkwpyrwtiabPibyrwnbwdwt wqbyrwnbyllfbmliyblobwuyrwtbiuqwblkbyrw
woytpojw,bpoqbj.mmuo byrwutbrpoqibgwkltwbyrwutbdl.yrib pxwbxlujwbylbp
iwtuwiblkbirtussbjtuwibyrpybgltwbpbdptfwqbtwiwdgspojwbylbyt.dmwybjpssia
Uddwqupywsnbyrwbgspjfibjwpiwqbeltfbpoqbrpiywowqbylbyrwbkllyblkbyrw
iyputibqwijwoquo bktldbyrwbywttpjwbylbyrwb ptqwoabRwtwbyrwnbkltdwqbsuowi
lobwuyrwtbiuqwblkbyrwbiyputepn,bpoqbiudusptsnbyrwbGls poubkltdwqbyel
suowib.mlobyrwbywttpjwbktldbyrwbdpuobmltypsbylbyrwbiyputepn,bkltduo bp
suxuo bpuiswbktldblowbylbyrwblyrwtabMtwiwoysnbktldbyrwbuoywtultblkbyrw
g.usquo bjpdwblyrwtbyt.dmwy-sufwbjpssi,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbYptcpobipe
yrwbrwpqblkbpbmtljwiiulobwdwt uo abKutiybjpdwbkl.tbGls poubpgtwpiy,bwpjr
gwqwjfwqbeuyrbpobltopywbkwpyrwtbrwpqqtwii,bpoqbwpjrbjpttnuo bpbr. w
gs.q wlobwtwjybgwkltwbrudabGwruoqbyrwiwbjpdwbyelbyt.dmwywti,bpoqbyewoyn
kwwybgwruoqbyrwbyt.dmwywtibmpjwqbpbr. w,bgspjf-dpowqbsulo,brwsqbuobswpir
gnbkl.tbiy.tqnbgspjfi,byelb.mlobwuyrwtbiuqw,brlsquo berpybpmmwptwqbylbgw
 lsqwobjrpuoibyrpybtpobylbpbijuoyusspoybqupdloqbjlssptbpgl.ybyrwbgwpiy’i
owjfabGwruoqbyrwbsulobdptjrwqbyewoynbdltwbGls pou,bkl.tbpgtwpiyabYrwiw
jpttuwqbimwpti,bg.yberwyrwtbyrwnbewtwbkltbyrwbm.tmliwblkbmtlywjyuo byrw
sulobktldbyrwbmwlmswbltbyrwbmwlmswbktldbyrwbsulobYptcpobepibpybpbsliibyl
folea

Yrwbpyyuy.qwblkbyrwbGls poubsuouo bwuyrwtbiuqwblkbyrwbepnbgwyewwobyrw
mltypsbpoqbyrwbiyputepnbuoqujpywqbwhytwdwbqwkwtwojw,bkltbyrwnbgwoybyrwut
glquwibktldbyrwutbepuiyibuobpbmtlkl.oqbgleberuswbO.dpbepibmpiiuo 
gwyewwobyrwutbsuowiabErwobyrwbgwpiybtwpjrwqbyrwbylmblkbyrwbiyputepnbyrw
mtljwiiulobrpsywq,bpoqbuddwqupywsnbyrwb ldpo poubtpo wqbgwslebmtliytpywq
yrwdiwsxwibpoqbmspjwqbyrwutbkltwrwpqiblobyrwb tl.oqabO.dp,berlbepi
wxuqwoysnbpoblsqbsulo,biyllqbeuyrbsltqsnbduwobi.txwnuo byrwbmtliytpyw
r.dpoibgwkltwbrudabRuibwxusbwnwib sptwqb spiiusn,byrwberuswbrwbgptwqbrui
y.ifibuobpbipxp wb tudpjw,bpoqbktldbruibqwwmbs.o ibt.dgswqbkltyrbpo
lduol.ibtlpt,bpybyrwbil.oqblkberujrbyrwb ldpo poubytwdgswqbuob.okwu owq
ywttltabYrwbpmw-dpobfouybruibgtleibuobyrl. ryabOwxwtbgwkltwbrpqbrwbgwwo
jpsswqb.mlobylbeuyowiibilbtwdptfpgswbpbijwowblkbyrwbpgpiwdwoyblkbdpo
gwkltwbpbgwpiyabMtwiwoysnbyrwbmtljwiiulobjloyuo.wqb.mlobuyibepn
qwijwoquo byrwbiyputjpiwbpoqby.touo bylbyrwbtu rybpslo bpbmpyrbyrtl. r
yrwb ptqwo,bpoqberwobuybrpqbmpiiwqbyrwdbyrwb ldpo poubpoqbyrwbGls pou
ptliwbpoqbtwi.dwqbyrwutbuoywtt.mywqbq.yuwia

Yptcpobtwdpuowqbuobruibjlojwpsdwoybepyjruo byrwd,bytnuo bylbquijlxwt
ildwbwhmspopyulobkltbyrwbiytpo w,bmptpqlhujpsbjloquyuloibyrpybrwbrpq
euyowiiwqabYrwbsulo,beuyrbruibtwyuo.w,brpqby.towqbyrwbkptbjltowtblkbyrw
mpspjwbpoqbquipmmwptwqbktldbiu ryabErpybepibrwbylbyrwiwbmwlmsw,bylbyrwiw
iytpo wbjtwpy.twi?bErpybquqbrwbtwmtwiwoy?bErnbyruibylmin-y.txn
pttpo wdwoyblkbimwjuwi?bRwtwbdpobtpofwqbslewtbyrpobyrwbrpsk-gwpiy,bpoq
pglxwbpss,bktldbyrwbqwkwtwojwbyrpybrpqbgwwobpjjltqwqbrud,biyllqbpbyt.w
gwpiy—pbipxp wbjptouxltwa

Rwbrpqbgwwobljj.muwqbeuyrbruibyrl. ryibpoqbruiblgiwtxpyuloibkltbildw
kukywwobduo.ywibklssleuo byrwbquipmmwptpojwblkbO.dpbptl.oqbyrwbwpiywto
woqblkbyrwbmpspjw,berwobruibpyywoyulobepibpyytpjywqbylbyrwblmmliuywbwoq
lkbyrwbiyt.jy.twbgnbyrwbil.oqblkblyrwtbirtussbyt.dmwybjpssiabY.touo brui
wnwibuobyrpybqutwjyulo,brwbipebyrwbmtljwiiulobwdwt uo bp puobuoylbxuwe,
poqbmtljwwquo byleptqbyrwbiyputjpiwbqleoberujrbyrwnbrpqbwoywtwqbyrw
 ptqwoabUddwqupywsnbyrwbolywiblkbyrwbirtussbjpssbil.oqwqb.mlobyrwutbwpti
yrwb ldpo poubpoqbyrwbGls poubtwi.dwqbyrwutbltu uopsbmliuyuloibktld
gwslebyrwbkllyblkbyrwbiyputjpiwbylbyrwbwoytpojwbylbyrwbmpspjw,bpoqblojw
p puobepibrldp wbmpuqbylbO.dpbpibrwbdpqwbruibytu.dmrpsbwoytnbuoylbyrw
g.usquo a

YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibtpobruibkuo wtibyrtl. rbruibdpiiblkbyl.iswqbrput,bg.y
kuopssnbrwbepibkltjwqbylbirpfwbruibrwpqbuobqwkwpy—rwbjl.sqbkuoqbol
whmspopyuloberpyilwxwtbkltbpssbyrpybrwbrpqbeuyowiiwqabRuibj.tuliuyn,
rlewxwt,bepibilbfwwosnbmuz.wqbyrpybrwbqwywtduowqbylbuoxwiyu pywbyrw
mpspjwbpoqbi.ttl.oquo b tl.oqibk.tyrwtbgwkltwbjloyuo.uo blobruibepnbuo
iwptjrblkbpbytpusbl.yblkbyrwbxpsswna

Swpxuo byrwbglqnblkbGls pouberwtwbrwbrpqbjpjrwqbuy,brwbiyptywqbislesnbyl
jutjswbyrwbg.usquo byrpybrwbdu rybwhpduowbuybktldbpssbiuqwibktldbyrw
jlojwpsuo bklsup wblkbyrwbi.ttl.oquo bkltwiyabRwbkl.oqbyrwbptjruywjy.tw
wz.pssnb.ouz.wb.mlobpssbiuqwi,bpoqbyrpybyrwb ptqwobwhywoqwqbwoyutwsn
ptl.oqbyrwbg.usquo ,byrl. rbpbmltyulob.mlobyrwbil.yrbiuqwblkbyrwbmpspjw
epib uxwoblxwtbylbjlttpsibpoqbmwoibuoberujrbewtwbfwmybo.dwtl.ib lpyibpoq
pbjloiuqwtpgswbksljfblkbjrujfwoiab.mlobyruibiuqw,bpsil,bewtwbiwxwtps
r.oqtwqbieuo uo ,bgwwruxwbr.yi,bi.jrbpibrwbrpqbiwwobuobyrwbopyuxw
xussp wblkbyrwb ldpo pouabYrwiwbrwbyllfbylbgwbyrwbz.ptywtiblkbyrwbgspjf
ispxwi,berlbmwtkltdwqbpssbyrwbptq.l.ibpoqbdwoupsbspgltbjloowjywqbeuyr
yrwbmpspjwa

Yrwbslkynb tpouywbepssberujrbi.ttl.oqwqbyrwbwoyutwbwojsli.twbepibmuwtjwq
gnbg.ybpbiuo swb pywberujrblmwowqblmmliuywbyrwbwpiybwoqblkbyrwbmpspjwa
Yruib pywbepibspt wbpoqblkbdpiiuxwbjloiyt.jyulo,bpmmwptuo bylbrpxwbgwwo
g.usybylbeuyriypoqbyrwbpiip.syblkbo.dwtl.ibpoqbewss-ptdwqbkltjwiabIl
iytlo bquqbuybpmmwptbyrpybyrwbpmw-dpobjl.sqbolybg.ybrptgltbyrwblmuoulo
yrpybuybrpqbgwwobjloiyt.jywqbylbmtlywjybyrwbuoywtultbp puoiybkltjwi
wz.ummwqbeuyrbrwpxnbgpyywtuo btpdiabYrpybi.jrbpbkltjwbrpqbwxwtbwhuiywq
euyruobyrwbxujuouynbuobruiyltujbyudwibiwwdwqbdliyb.osufwsn,bpoqbYptcpo
jlovwjy.twq,byrwtwkltw,byrpybyrwbepssbpoqbyrwb pywbewtwblkbpsdliy
.oyruofpgswbpoyuz.uyn,bqpyuo ,bql.gyswii,bktldbyrwbklt lyywobp wblkbyrw
Pyspoyupoi,bpoqbjloiyt.jywq,bmwtrpmi,bylbmtlywjybyrwbg.usqwtiblkbyrw
MpspjwblkbQupdloqibktldbyrwbewss-ptdwqbkltjwibyrpybrpqbjldwbktld
Pyspoyuibylbeltfbyrwb lsqbduowiblkbLmptbpoqbylbjlsloucwbjwoytpsbPktujpa

Eruswbyrwbepss,byrwb pyw,bpoqbyrwbmpspjwbuyiwsk,bi.  wiywqbuobdponbepni
psdliyb.ogwsuwxpgswbp w,bnwybyrwnbewtwbuobi.jrbpobwhjwsswoybiypywblk
twmputbyrpybuybepibwxuqwoybyrpybyrwnbewtwbiyussbuorpguywqbgnbtpyulops
poqbuoywssu woybjtwpy.twi;beruswb.mlobyrwbil.yrbiuqwbYptcpobrpqbiwwobp
owebylewtbuobmtljwiiblkbjloiyt.jyulo,berwtwbpbo.dgwtblkbgspjfibeltfuo 
.oqwtbyrwbqutwjyuloblkbGls poubewtwbj.yyuo bpoqbirpmuo b tpouywbgsljfi
poqbm.yyuo byrwdbuobmspjwa

Yptcpobrpqbrpsywqbuobpbytwwbowptbyrwbwpiyb pywbylbepyjrbyrwbsukwbmpiiuo 
uobpoqbl.yblkbyrwbmpspjwb tl.oqibgwowpyrbyrwbpojuwoybmltyps,bpoqbpibrw
epyjrwq,bpbslo bjpxpsjpqwblkbmlewtk.sb ldpo poubwdwt wqbktldbyrwbkltwiy
poqbwoywtwqbyrwbwojsli.twabIe.o buobruqwibgwyewwobyelbmlswi,byruibmptyn
epibjpttnuo btl. r-rweobgsljfiblkb tpouyw,bkl.tbdwobylbpbgsljfabYelblt
yrtwwbGls poubpjjldmpouwqbyrwbslo bsuowblkbjpttuwti,berujrbepibmtwjwqwq
poqbklsslewqbgnbpbqwypjrdwoyblkbgspjfbepttulti,bptdwqbeuyrbgpyysw-phwi
poqbimwptiabYrwbqwdwpoltbpoqbpyyuy.qwblkbyrwbgspjfbmltywti,bpibewssbpi
lkbyrwbGls pou,bi.  wiywqbylbyrwbpmw-dpobolyruo bdltwboltbswiibyrpobp
jptpxpoblkbqlofwni,bmslqquo byrwutbiy.muqbepnbpybyrwbgwrwiyblkbyrwut
qtuxwtiabUkblowbsp  wqbrwbepibmtlqqwqbeuyrbyrwbmluoyblkbpbimwptblt
iyt.jfbeuyrbuyibrpkyabYrwtwbepibolb twpywtbgt.ypsuynbirleobyrpobuobyrw
ltquoptnbrpoqsuo blkbgwpiyiblkbg.tqwobyrwbeltsqbptl.oq,boltbuobyrw
qwdwpoltblkbyrwbgspjfibepibyrwtwbponbdltwbuoqujpyuloblkblgvwjyuloblt
twxlsybyrpobnl.biwwbqwmujywqb.mlobyrwbkpjwiblkbpbslo bsuowblk
g.tqwo-gwptuo bd.swi;bylbpssbuoywoyibpoqbm.tmliwibyrwnbewtwbq.dg,bqtuxwo
jpyyswabIslesnbyrwnbkuswqbyrtl. rbyrwb pywepnbpoqbquipmmwptwqbktld
iu rya

Pbkwebdldwoyibspywtbpolyrwtbmptynbjpdwbl.yblkbyrwbkltwiybpoqbmpiiwqbuoyl
yrwbmpspjwb tl.oqiabYruibjloiuiywqblkbk.ssnbkukynbptdwqbGls poubpoq
yeujwbpibdponbgspjfbepttultibeuyrbimwptibpoqbphwiabWoyutwsnbi.ttl.oqwq
gnbyrwiwbptdwqbjtwpy.twibewtwbkl.tbgtpeonbmltywti,bjpttnuo bpbidpss
suyywt,b.mloberujrbepibkpiywowqbpobltopywbjrwiybpgl.ybyelbkwwybeuqwbgn
kl.tbkwwybslo ,beuyrbpbqwmyrblkbpmmtlhudpywsnbyelbkwwyabYrwbjrwiybuyiwsk
epiblkbildwbqptf,bewpyrwt-eltobellq,bpoqbepibtwuokltjwqbgnbgpoqibpoq
jltowtiblkberpybpmmwptwqbylbgwbxut uob lsqbuoberujrbewtwbiwybdpon
qupdloqiabErpybyrwbjrwiybjloypuowqbYptcpobjl.sqboly,blkbjl.tiw,
jlojwuxw,bg.ybyrpybuybepibjloiuqwtwqblkb twpybxps.wbepibwxuqwojwqbgnbyrw
mtwjp.yuloibkltbipkwynbeuyrberujrbuybrpqbgwwobi.ttl.oqwqabYrwbjrwiybepi
gltowbqutwjysnbuoylbyrwbr. w,buxn-jlxwtwqbylewtbpybyrwboltyrwpiybjltowt
lkbyrwbmpspjw,byrwbwoytpojwbylberujr,bYptcpobolebkutiyblgiwtxwq,bepi
iwj.twqbgnbqlltibpibspt wbpoqbrwpxnbpibyrwbwpiyb pywbuyiwska

Pybyrwbkutiyblmmlty.ouynbyrpybrwbjl.sqbiwucwbylbpjjldmsuirbuy
.oquijlxwtwq,bYptcpobie.o bpjtliibyrwbv.o swbytpusbpoqbjloyuo.wqbyrtl. r
yrwbytwwibylbyrpyblowbuoberujrbrwbrpqbswkybyrwbglqnblkbyrwbGls poua
Yrtleuo byruibpjtliibruibirl.sqwtbrwbtwy.towqbylbpbmluoybjsliwbpglxwbyrw
ytpusbowptbyrwbwpiyb pyw,bpoqbiwucuo b.mlobpbdldwoyberwobyrwtwbepibp
s.ssbuobyrwbytpkkujbrwbr.tswqbyrwbglqnbpibjsliwbylbyrwbmltypsbpi
mliiugswa

“Ole,”byrl. rybyrwbpmw-dpo,b“swybyrwdb .wiiberlbiswebyrwutbkwsslebuk
yrwnbjpoa”

Dpfuo bruibepnbyleptqbyrwbil.yrwpiy,bYptcpobpmmtlpjrwqbyrwbdl.oypuoi
erujrbsuwbgpjfblkbyrwbXpsswnblkbyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqiabRwbrpqblkywobyl
dpfwbqwyl.tibylbpxluqbopyuxwbxussp wibpoqbylbfwwmbl.yblkbiu ryblkbyrw
o.dwtl.ibmptyuwiblkbGls poubyrpybiwwdwqbylbgwbdlxuo buobpssbqutwjyuloi
yrtl. rbyrwbkltwiyabSpywbuobyrwbpkywtollobrwbjpdwbl.yblkbyrwbrussibuoyl
k.ssbxuweblkbyrwbdl.oypuoibgwnloq—tl. r,b tpouywbrussibyrwnbewtw,berliw
mtwjumuyl.ibmwpfibptliwbkptbpglxwbyrwbyudgwtbsuowabQutwjysnbgwkltwbrudbp
ewss-dptfwqbytpusbswqbuoylbpbjponlo,berujrbrwbjl.sqbiwwbel.oqbkptb.meptq
yleptqbyrwbi.dduyabYrui,byrwo,bel.sqbgwbpib llqbpbmspjwbylbjlddwojwbrui
uoxwiyu pyuloibpibpolyrwtabPoqbil,biwwuo byrpybyrwbjlpiybepibjswpt,byrw
pmw-dpobqwijwoqwqbktldbyrwbytwwi,bpoqbypfuo bpqxpoyp wblkbyrwb.oqwtgt.ir
gltqwtuo byrwbytpus,bdpqwbruibepnbiuswoysn,bnwybieukysn,buoylbyrwbrussia
Kltbyrwbdliybmptybrwbepibjldmwsswqbylbeltdbruibepnbyrtl. rbyrujfwyi,bklt
yrwbytpusbepibuobjloiypoyb.iwbgnb ldpo poubpoqbGls pou,bmptyuwibmpiiuo 
.mbuybwdmyn-rpoqwqbpoq,btwy.touo ,bgwptuo bgsljfiblkb tpouywabPibrw
pqxpojwqbdltwbqwwmsnbuoylbyrwbrussibyrwbrwpxnb.oqwtgt.irb pxwbepnbylbp
su rywtb tleyrblkbijt.g,byrtl. rberujrbrwbjl.sqbmpiibeuyrbkptb twpywt
wpiwbyrl. rbeuyrbjloiuqwtpgswbdltwbtuifblkbquijlxwtnabRlewxwt,byrw
uoiyuojyblkbyrwbgwpiybyrpybqlduopywqbYptcpo’ibv.o swbjtpkybmwtduyywqbrud
ylbkuoqbjlxwtberwtwbpolyrwtbel.sqbrpxwbgwwobuobk.ssbxuweblkbwxwtnbwowdna
Rpskbepnb.mbyrwbdl.oypuobyrwbytpusbmpiiwqbyrtl. rbpbopttleb lt w,boly
dltwbyrpobyewoynbkwwybeuqwbpoqbwtlqwqbktldbilsuqb tpouywbjsukkiabRwtw
yrwtwbepibolbjlojwpsdwoyberpyilwxwt,bpoqbyrwbpmw-dpobtwpsucwqbyrpybyl
woywtbuybel.sqbdwpobpsdliybuddwqupywbquijlxwtnab spojuo bpgl.y,brwbipe
yrpybgnbdpfuo bpbisu rybqwyl.tbrwbjl.sqbtwpjrbyrwbi.dduyblkbyrwb lt w,
erwtw,bpduqby.dgswq,b tpouywbgl.sqwtibpoqbiy.oywqbytwwibpoqbirt.gi,brw
fowebyrpybrwbjl.sqbkuoqbi.kkujuwoybjlojwpsdwoy,bpoqbmwtrpmibpbmspuowt
xuweblkbyrwbytpusbgwnloqa

Oltbepibrwbduiypfwo,bklt,berwobrwbrpqbtwpjrwqbpbxpoyp wbmluoybkptbpglxw
yrwbytpus,brwbipebprwpqbpoblmwobmljfwybuobyrwbdl.oypuo,byrwbjsukki
i.ttl.oquo berujrbewtwbrlownjldgwqbeuyrbo.dwtl.iblmwouo i,berujr,buy
iwwdwqbylbYptcpo,bjl.sqbgwbop. rybwsiwbyrpobyrwbdl.yriblkby.oowsiabTl. r
ellqwobspqqwtibtwpjrwqbylbildwblkbyrwd,bjsliwtbylbyrwbgpiwblkbyrw
jsukki,beruswbktldblyrwtibfolyywqbtlmwibqpo swqbylbyrwb tl.oqbgwsleabL.y
lkbyrwiwby.oowsibwdwt wqbdwobjpttnuo bsuyyswbipjfiblkbwptyr,berujrbyrwn
q.dmwqbuobpbjlddlobmuswbgwiuqwbpbtux.swyberujrbtpobyrtl. rbyrwb lt wa
Rwtwblyrwtbgspjfi,bi.mwtxuiwqbgnbGls pou,bewtwbwo p wqbuobepiruo byrw
quty,bg.yberpybyrwnbrlmwqbylbkuoqbltberpybyrwnbquqbkuoq,bYptcpobjl.sq
olyb .wiia

Pslo blowbiuqwblkbyrwbtljfnbgpiuobdponblyrwtbgspjfibewtwbwo p wqbuo
z.pttnuo byrwb tpouywbktldbyrwbjsukki,berujrbrpqbgwwobj.ybpepnbyrtl. r
iudusptblmwtpyuloibuoylbpbiwtuwiblkbywttpjwibt.oouo bktldbyrwbkslltblk
yrwbgpiuobylbyrwbi.dduyblkbyrwbjsukkabRwtwbopfwqbgspjfibyluswqbeuyr
mtuduyuxwbyllsib.oqwtbyrwbi.mwtxuiuloblkbipxp wbGls pouabYrwbpjyuxuyuwi
lkbyrwbz.pttndwobewtwblgxul.ibwol. r,bg.yberpybyrwblyrwtibewtwbgtuo uo 
ktldbyrwbdl.yriblkbyrwby.oowsibYptcpobjl.sqbolybgwbmliuyuxw,byrl. rbyrw
opy.tpsbpii.dmyulobepibyrpybuybepib lsqabErwtw,byrwo,bquqbyrwnblgypuo
yrwutbqupdloqi?bJwtypuosnbolybktldbyrwiwbilsuqb tpouywbjsukkia

Pbkwebduo.ywi’blgiwtxpyulobjloxuojwqbYptcpobyrpybyrwbytpusbrwbrpq
klsslewqbktldbyrwbkltwiybwoqwqbuobyruibsuyyswbj.s-qw-ipj,bpoqbilbrw
il. rybpbepnb.meptqbpoqbptl.oqbuy,buobiwptjrblkbpbmpiibpjtliibyrwbtpo wa

Yrwbgpspojwblkbyrpybqpnbpoqbowptsnbpssbyrwbowhybrwbqwxlywqbylbrui
wkkltyibuobyruibqutwjyulo,blosnbuobyrwbwoqbylbgwbkltjwqbylbpqduybyrpy
yrwtwbepibolbw twiibktldbyrwbxpsswnb.mlobyruibiuqwabYlbmluoyibkptbpglxw
yrwbyudgwtbsuowbrwbdpqwbruibepn,bg.ybyrwtw,bpsepni,brwbjpdwbkpjwbylbkpjw
euyrbirwwt,bmwtmwoquj.sptbjsukkiblkb tpouywbylewtuo bru rbpglxwbrud,
.mlobyrwbkpjwblkberujrbolybwxwobyrwbpmw-dpobjl.sqbkuoqbkllyrlsqabPslo 
yrwbil.yrwtobpoqbwpiywtobiuqwiblkbyrwbgpiuobrwbjpttuwqbrui
uoxwiyu pyulo,bg.ybeuyrbiudusptbquipmmluoyuo btwi.syi,bpoqbyrwobpybspiy
rwby.towqbruibiywmibgpjfbyleptqbyrwbkltwiybeuyrbyrwbuoywoyuloblkbiwwfuo 
pbepnbl.ybyrtl. rbyrwbxpsswnblkbLmptbeuyrbSp,bpkywtbqptfowiibrpqbkpsswoa

Yrwbi.obrpqbv.iybtuiwoberwobYptcpobpttuxwqbpybyrwbopyuxwbxussp wbuo
erujrbrwbrpqbswkybSp,bpoqbolbillowtbquqbruibwnwibtwiyb.mlobuybyrpobrw
gwjpdwbpmmtwrwoiuxwbyrpybildwyruo bepibpduii,bklt,bolyblosnbepibyrwb pyw
euqwblmwobg.ybyrwtwbepibolbiu oblkbsukwbeuyruobyrwbmpsuipqw,boltbepi
yrwtwbponbdlxwdwoyblkbyrwbieuo uo br.yibyrpybel.sqbuoqujpywbyrpybyrwn
ewtwbljj.muwqabPsepnibeptnblkbpdg.ir,bYptcpobtwjlooluywtwqbjptwk.ssn
gwkltwbqwijwoquo buoylbyrwbxussp wabYlbruibytpuowqblgiwtxpyulobuybgwjpdw
wxuqwoybyrpybyrwbxussp wbrpqbgwwobqwiwtywqbkltbpybswpiybyewoyn-kl.t
rl.tiabT.oouo bylbyrwbr.ybuoberujrbSpbrpqbgwwobruqqwobrwbrpiyusn
pijwoqwqbyrwbtlmwbpoqbwhpduowqbyrwbuoywtult—uybepibxpjpoy,boltbepi
yrwtwbponbiu oblkbyrwbRu rbMtuwiywiiabQwijwoquo bylbyrwb tl.oq,byrw
pmw-dpobiyptywqbylbdpfwbpbyrltl. rbuoxwiyu pyuloblkbyrwbxussp wbuo
iwptjrblkbjsweibylbyrwbkpywblkbuyibuorpguypoyibpoqblkbSpabRwbrpq
whpduowqbyrwbuoywtultiblkbiwxwtpsbr.yiberwobruibfwwobwnwibolywqbpbisu ry
dlxwdwoyblkblowblkbyrwbieuo uo ,bjp w-sufwbrpguypyuloibildwbquiypojw
ktldbrudabZ.ujfsnbrwbjtliiwqbyrwbuoywtxwouo bimpjw,bpoqbpibrwbpmmtlpjrwq
yrwbr.ybrwbipebyrpybolbtlmwbytpuswqbktldbuyibqlltepnabRpsyuo bgwowpyr,
Yptcpobtpuiwqbruibkpjwbylbyrwbpmwty.tw,byrtl. rberujrbolyruo bg.ybyrw
tllkblkbyrwbr.ybepibxuiugswa

“ ldpo pou,”brwbjtuwq,b“uybuibU,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabJldwbylbyrwblmwouo 
poqbywssbdwberpybrpibgwjldwblkbnl.tbkwssleibpoqblkbdnbdpyw,berldbUbswky
rwtwb.oqwtbyrwbmtlywjyuloblkbnl.tbepttultia”

Yrwtwbepibolbpoiewt,bpoqbp puobYptcpobjpsswq,bkltbrwbepibmliuyuxwbyrpy
ildwlowbepibruquo buobyrwbr.ya

“Jldwbqleo,”brwbjpsswqbp puo,b“ltbUbeussbjldwb.mbpkywtbnl.a”

IyussbyrwtwbepibolbtwmsnabPb tudbiduswbyl.jrwqbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibsumibpibrw
qtwebruibr.oyuo bfoukwbktldbuyibirwpyrbpoqbmspjwqbuybgwyewwobruibywwyr,
poqbyrwo,beuyrbpbjpy-sufwbimtuo ,bswpmwqbkltbyrwblmwouo ,bpoqbjpyjruo 
uyibiuqwi,bqtwebruibglqnb.mbuoylbyrwbuoywtultblkbyrwbr.ya

Ukbrwbrpqbwhmwjywqblmmliuyulo,brwbdwybeuyrbolow,boltbuobyrwbqudsn
su rywqbuoywtultbjl.sqbrwbpybkutiybquiyuo .uirbponbmtwiwojw,byrl. r,
erwobruibwnwibgwjpdwbpjj.iyldwqbylbyrwbiwdu-qptfowii,brwbqwijtuwqbp
g.oqswblkbswpxwibpoqb tpiiwibsnuo bp puoiybyrwblmmliuywbepssblkbyrw
iyt.jy.twabJtliiuo bylbyrwiwbrwbyltwbyrwdbpiuqwbtwxwpsuo byrwbr.qqswq
kltdblkbpbywttukuwqbeldpoabIwucuo brwtbgnbpbirl.sqwtbrwbqtwebrwtbylbp
iuyyuo bmliuyuloa

“Erpybrpibrpmmwowq?”brwbqwdpoqwqab“Erwtwbptwbyrwbxussp wti?bErwtwbuibdn
dpyw?”

“Qlbolybfussbdw!bQlbolybfussbdw!”birwbjtuwqab“UybepibolybUabUybepiboly
dnbkp.sya”

“Ubqlbolybuoywoqbylbfussbnl.,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoab“Ywssbdwbyrwbyt.yrbpoq
nl.birpssbgwbipkwa”

“YrwbGls poubrpxwbypfwobyrwdbpepn,”bjtuwqbyrwbeldpoab“Yrwnbjpdwberwobyrw
i.obepibsleb.mlobyrwbqpnbyrpybnl.bpttuxwq,bpoqbyrwnbewtwbxwtnbpo tn,bklt
yrwnbrpqbkl.oqbyrwbglqnblkbyrwutbkwsslebl.yiuqwbyrwb pywblkbyrwbMpspjw
lkbQupdloqiabYrwnbfowebyrpybrwbrpqbjldwbrwtwbylbl.tbxussp w,bpoqbolblow
rpqbiwwobrudbpsuxwbiuojwbrwbrpqbqwmptywqbktldbyrwbmpspjwabYrwnbjpdw,
yrwo,bpoqbyrtwpywowqbpoqbylty.twqbl.tbmwlmsw,b.oyusbpybspiybyrwbepttulti
ylsqbyrwdbpssabUbruqabUbqlbolybfolebernbyrwnbquqbolybkuoqbdwabG.ybpy
spiybyrwnbewoybpepn,bypfuo bpssbyrwblyrwtibeuyrbyrwd;bypfuo bnl.tbdpyw,
yllabYrwnbeussbowxwtbjldwbgpjfa”

“Nl.byruofbyrpybyrwbGls poubeussbfussbyrwd?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Nwi,”birwbtwmsuwq,b“yrwnbfussbpssberlbquimswpiwbyrwda”

Pslow,bole,bpoqbtwsuwxwqblkbyrwbtwimloiugusuynblkbSp,bYptcpobdu ry
wpiusnbdpfwbruibepnbgnbou rybyrtl. rbyrwbxpsswnblkbLmptbpoqbylbipkwyn
gwnloqbyrwbgpttuwtabG.ybmwtrpmibi.jrbpbyrl. rybowxwtbwoywtwqbruibrwpqa
 tpyuy.qwbpoqbslnpsynbewtwbdptfwqbjrptpjywtuiyujiblkbyrwbpmw-dpoabSpbrpq
ipxwqbrudbktldbyrwbkpopyujuidbpoqbuoytu .wblkbrwtbmwlmswabIrwbrpqbipxwq
rudbpybpbjliyblkbpssbyrpybepibdliybqwptbylbrwt,bmlewtbpoqbmliuyulo,
mwpjwbpoqbipkwynabIrwbrpqbvwlmptqucwqbrwtbsukwbkltbrud,bpoqbgwjldwbpo
whuswbktldbrwtbleobjl.oytnabYrwbdwtwbkpjybyrwobyrpybyrwbGls poubrpq
ypfwobrwtbeuyrbyrwbmliiugswbuoywoyuloblkbispnuo brwt,bepibolybi.kkujuwoy
kltbyrwbpmw-dpoabRwbd.iybfoleberwyrwtbltbolybirwbsuxwq,bpoqbukbirwbsuxwq
rwbd.iybqwxlywbruibwxwtnbwowt nbylbeuoouo brwtbtwswpiwbpoqbrwtbwxwoy.ps
wijpmwbktldbyrwbqpo wtiblkbyruibxpsswna

Yptcpobimwoybyrwbqpnbtwjlooluywtuo bl.yiuqwbyrwbmpspjwb tl.oqi,biwwfuo 
poblmmlty.ouynblkb puouo bwoytpojwbeuyrl.ybqwywjyulo,bg.ybyruibrwbkl.oq
udmliiugswbuopid.jrbpibyrwtwbepibowxwtbpbdldwoybyrpybyrwtwbewtwboly
 ldpo poubltbGls poubuobyrwbl.ywtb ptqwoabG.ybeuyrbyrwbpmmtlpjrblk
qptfowiibyrwb twpybwpiyb pywbepibjsliwq,bpoqbyrwbuodpywiblkbyrwbr.yibpoq
mpspjwbeuyrqtwebeuyruobyrwutbepssi,bswpxuo bolybwxwobpbiuo swbiwoyuows
euyrl.y—pbkpjybyrpybuoqujpywqbjswptsnbyrpybyrwbGls poubrpqbolbtwpilobyl
pmmtwrwoqbpobpyypjfabYrwbi.gv. pyuloblkbyrwb ldpo pou,byrwo,bepi
pmmptwoysnbjldmswyw,bpoqbilbyrwbylewtuo bepssbi.ttl.oquo byrwutbmpspjw,
erujrbepibdltwbyrpobi.kkujuwoybylbmtlywjybyrwdbktldbyrwbuotlpqiblk
suloi,bepibg.ybyrwbtwduoqwtblkbpobpojuwoybqpnberwobpblojw-mlewtk.s,bg.y
olebxpouirwq,bwowdnbyrtwpywowqbyrwutbmwpjwbpoqbipkwyna

ErwobqptfowiibrpqbkuopssnbiwyyswqbYptcpobpmmtlpjrwqbyrwb pyw,bpoq
yrtleuo byrwbolliwblkbruib tpiibtlmwblxwtblowblkbyrwbjptxwqbsuloibyrpy
jpmmwqbyrwb pywbmliyi,bpijwoqwqbz.ujfsnbylbyrwbi.dduyblkbyrwbepss,bktld
erwtwbrwbqtlmmwqbsu rysnbuoylbyrwb ptqwobgwsleabYlbuoi.twbpobpxwo.wbklt
z.ujfbwijpmwbuobyrwbwxwoybyrpybrwbkl.oqbSp,brwb.ospyjrwqbyrwbrwpxnb pywi
poqbie.o byrwdblmwoabYrwobrwbjtwmybiywpsyrusnbyleptqbyrwbuxn-jlxwtwq
wpiybylewt,berujrbrwbrpqbjrliwobpkywtbpbqpnblkbuoxwiyu pyulobpiblkkwtuo 
wpiuwiybuo twiibylbyrwbmpspjwabYrwbi.jjwiiblkbruibmspobruo wqbspt wsn
.mlobyrwbp wbpoqbiytwo yrblkbyrwbuxnberujrb twebpsdliybylbyrwbi.dduyblk
yrwbylewt,bpoq,bylbruibuddwoiwbtwsuwk,brwbkl.oqbyrpybuybel.sqbwpiusn
i.mmltybruibewu rya

Kptbpglxwbyrwb tl.oq,bowptbyrwbi.dduyblkbyrwbylewt,brwbrpqbiwwobktldbyrw
ytwwibi.ttl.oquo byrwbmpspjwbpoblmwobeuoqle,berujr,b.osufwbyrwbgpspojw
lkbyrliwbuobyruibmptyblkbyrwbmpspjw,bepibeuyrl.ybgptiabQudbsu ryibirlow
ktldbiwxwtpsblkbyrwbylewtbeuoqlei,bpibktldbyrliwblkblyrwtbmptyiblkbyrw
mpspjwabPxluquo byrwiwbsu rywqbpmwty.twi,bYptcpobpijwoqwqbz.ujfsn,
yrl. rbjptwk.ssn,byleptqbyrwb.ogpttwqbeuoqlebpglxw,bpoqbpibrwbtwpjrwqbuy
poqbjp.yul.isnbtpuiwqbruibwnwibpglxwbyrwbswxwsblkbyrwbiuss,brwbepi
qwsu rywqbylbkuoqbyrpybuyblmwowqbuoylbpob.osu rywqbjrpdgwt,byrwbuoywtult
lkberujr,brlewxwt,bepibilbirtl.qwqbuobqptfowiibyrpybrwbjl.sqbquijwto
olyruo beuyruoabQtpeuo brudiwskbjptwk.ssnbylbyrwbswxwsblkbyrwbiussbrw
jtwmybz.uwysnbuoylbyrwbpmptydwoybgwnloqab tlmuo byrtl. rbyrwbgspjfowii,
rwbjp.yul.isnbdpqwbyrwbtl.oqiblkbyrwbtlld,berujrbrwbkl.oqbylbjloypuobp
jptxwqbgwqiywpqblkbmwj.suptbqwiu o,bpbypgsw,bpoqbpbjl.mswblkbgwojrwia
.mlobyrwbgwqiywpqbewtwbiy.kkiblkbelxwobdpywtups,byrtleoblxwtbyrwbilkysn
ypoowqbmwsyiblkbpoywslmwibpoqbswlmptqia

Lmmliuywbyrwbeuoqlebyrtl. rberujrbrwbrpqbwoywtwqbepibpbjsliwqbqlltabYrui
rwblmwowqbislesnbpoqbiuswoysn,b.oyus,byrtl. rbpbyuonbpmwty.twbrwbjl.sq
sllfbl.yb.mlobpbqudsnbsu rywqbjlttuqltbltbjutj.sptbrpssepn,buobyrw
jwoywtblkberujrbepibpoblmwouo bpgl.ybkl.tbkwwybuobqupdwywt,bmpiiuo 
yrtl. rberujrbpoqbquipmmwptuo bgwnloqbpbiudusptblmwouo buobyrwbjwusuo 
qutwjysnbpglxwbepibpbiytpu rybmlswbeuyrbirltybjtliimuwjwibkpiywowqbylbuy
pybuoywtxpsiblkbpgl.ybpbklly—z.uywbwxuqwoysnbyrwbmtuduyuxwbiyputjpiw
erujrb pxwbjldd.oujpyulobgwyewwobyrwbxptul.ibkslltiblkbyrwbylewtabYrtww
.mtu rybjls.doi,biwybpybwz.psbuoywtxpsibpgl.ybyrwbjutj.dkwtwojwblkbyrw
jutj.sptblmwouo buobyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwbkslltbrwsmwqbylbi.mmltybyrw
jwusuo bpglxwabPtl.oqbyrwbl.yiuqwblkbyruibjutj.sptbrpssepnbyrwtwbewtw
lyrwtbqllti,biudusptbylbyrpyblmwouo buoylbyrwbpmptydwoybuoberujrbrwbepia

Rwptuo bolboluiwbpoqbiwwuo bolbwxuqwojwblkbpolyrwtbyrpobrudiwsk,bYptcpo
lmwowqbyrwbqlltbpoqbiywmmwqbuoylbyrwbrpssepnabRuiboliytusibewtwbole
piipuswqbiytlo snbgnbyrwbipdwbrwpxnbktp tpojwblkbuojwoiwbyrpybrpqbkutiy
 twwywqbrudb.mlobruibpmmtlpjrbylbyrwbmpspjwbiwxwtpsbqpnibgwkltwabUobyrw
uoywtultblkbyrwbylewt,brlewxwt,buybepibd.jrbdltwbmlewtk.s,bmtpjyujpssn
lgsuywtpyuo bpssblyrwtblqlti,bpoqbmspjuo b.mlobyrwbpmw-dpobpobpsdliy
mtlruguyuxwbrpoqujpmbuobruibiwptjrbkltbSpabUobkpjybpibrwbxuwewqbyrw
qlltib.mlobyruibiuo swbiyp wblkbyrwbylewt,brwbepibkusswqbeuyr
jloiywtopyulobpybyrwbmtlimwjyblkbyrwbewss-ou rbudmliiugswbypifbyrpy
jloktloywqbrudabYlbiwptjrbyruib twpybylewtbpslow,beuyrl.ybponbpiiuiypojw
erpywxwtbktldbruibfwwobiwoiwblkbijwoy,biwwdwqbudmliiugswblk
pjjldmsuirdwoy,bukbrwbewtwbylbypfwbwxwobyrwbdliybltquoptnbmtwjp.yuloi
p puoiybqwywjyuloa

Yrwbpmw-dpo’ibiwsk-jlokuqwojwbepibuobolbdwpi.twbgs.oqwtuo bw lyuida
Foleuo bruibsuduypyuloi,brwbfowebyrpybrwbel.sqbrpxwbsuyyswbltbolbjrpojw
p puoiybwxwobpbkwebGls poubewtwbrwbylbgwbquijlxwtwqbeuyruobyrwutbmpspjw,
erwtwbpssbepibkpdusuptbylbyrwdbpoqbiytpo wbylbrudabGwruoqbrudbepibyrw
lmwobeuoqle,bpoqbyrwbiuswoybv.o swbou ry,bpoqbktwwqldabPrwpqbqpo wt,
mtwqwiyuowqbkpus.tw;bpoq,bz.uywbsufwsn,bqwpyrabErujrbirl.sqbrwbjrlliw?
Kltbpbdldwoybrwbiyllqbuobiuswoybyrl. ry,bpoqbyrwo,btpuiuo bruibrwpqbpoq
iz.ptuo bruib twpybirl.sqwti,brwbirllfbruibgspjfbsljfibqwkupoysnbpoq
iywmmwqbglsqsnbyleptqbyrwbowptwiybqlltabTlldbpkywtbtlldbrwbrpq
uoxwiyu pywqb.oyusbrwbrpqbdpqwbyrwbwoyutwbjutjswblkbyrwbspoquo ,bg.ybuo
ilbkptbpibSpbltbponbjswebylbrwtbewtwbjlojwtowqbruibiwptjrbepibkt.uyswiia
Rwbkl.oqbz.puoybk.touy.twbpoqbt. ibpoqbypmwiytuwi,bpoqbltopdwoyiblkb lsq
poqbqupdloqi,bpoqbuoblowbqudsnbsu rywqbjrpdgwtbrwbjpdwb.mlobpbiswwmuo 
Gls pou,bg.ybilbiuswoybewtwbyrwbdlxwdwoyiblkbyrwbpmw-dpobyrpybyrw
iswwmwtbiswmyblob.oquiy.tgwq,bwxwobyrl. rbYptcpobmpiiwqbwoyutwsnbptl.oq
ruibgwq,berujrbepibiwybuobyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwbjrpdgwt,bpoqbuoxwiyu pywqbp
j.typuowqbpsjlxwbgwnloqa

Rpxuo bjldmswywqbyrwbtl.oqiblkbyruibksllt,bYptcpobqwywtduowqbylbeltf
.meptqbkutiybpoqbyrwo,btwy.touo ,buoxwiyu pywbyrwbslewtbiyp wibspywta
M.ti.poybylbyruibmspo,byrwtwkltw,brwbpijwoqwqbyrwbiytpo wbiyputepna
Yrtwwbspoquo ibrwbmpiiwqbgwkltwbrwbtwpjrwqbyrwb.mmwtbkslltblkbyrwbylewta
Jutjsuo bwpjrbkslltbepibpbtuo blkbqllti,bpssblkberujrbewtwbjsliwq,berusw
qudsnbsu ryuo bwpjrbspoquo bewtwbkwwgsnbg.touo bjtwiiwyi—irpssle,
 lsqwobglesi—jloypuouo berpybpmmwptwqbylbgwbypssle,buoberujrbkslpywqbp
yle-sufwbeujfa

.mlobyrwb.mmwtbspoquo byrwtwbewtwbg.ybyrtwwbqllti,bpssblkberujrbewtw
jsliwqabYrwbjwusuo blkbyruibrpssepnbepibyrwbqldw-sufwbtllkblkbyrwbylewt,
uobyrwbjwoywtblkberujrbepibpolyrwtbjutj.sptblmwouo ,byrtl. rberujrbyrw
iyputepnbmtlyt.qwqbuoylbyrwbqptfowiiblkbyrwbou rybpglxwa

PibYptcpoblmwowqbyrwbqlltbowptwiybrudbuybjtwpfwqb.mlobuyibruo wi,b uxuo 
kltyrbyrwbkutiybp.qugswbil.oqbyrpybrpqbtwi.sywqbktldbruibuoxwiyu pyuloi
.mbylbyruibmluoyabYrwbuoywtultblkbyrwbpmptydwoybgwkltwbrudbepi
.osu rywq,bpoqbpibYptcpobiyllqbyrwtwbuobyrwbwoytpojwbuobiypy.wiz.w
iuswojwbkltbpbkwebiwjloqibklssleuo byrwbjtwpfuo blkbyrwbruo w,brwbepi
i.qqwosnbpeptwblkbdlxwdwoy—lkbyrwbkpuoywiybirpqleblkbpbil.oq—gwruoq
rudabErwwsuo bz.ujfsnbrwbipebyrwbku .twblkbpbdpobiypoquo buobpoblmwo
qlltepnb.mlobyrwblmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrwbspoquo a




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHUU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWb LSQWObUO LYI


WIYWGPObDUTPOQPbrpqbmspnwqbyrwbtôswblkbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibeuyrbyrw
Epcutubpibruibp.quwojwbkltbswiibyrpobyewoyn-kl.tbrl.tiberwobrwbgw pobyl
twpsucwbyrpy,bwxwobeuyrbyrwbsww-epnbyrpybruibi.mmliwqsnbuov.twqbgtpuo
 pxwbrud,buybepib luo bylbgwbpbxwtnbqukkuj.sybyruo bylbjpttnblobyrw
qwjwmyulobuoqwkuouywsnabUobyrwbkutiybmspjwb.i.spbquqbolybiwwdbpybpss
mswpiwqbpybyrwbuqwpblkbdwtwsnbypfuo byrwb lsqbpepnbktldbyrwbuoyt.qwti
poqbyrwobt.oouo bktldbyrwdabOltbquqbruibkwsslebepttultibiwwdbponbdltw
woyr.iupiyujblxwtbyrwbmspobyrpobrwabPibpbdpyywtblkbkpjybyrwnbjl.sqboly
jlojwuxwbyrpybponbo.dgwtblkbg.dmib.mlobyrwbrwpqbjl.sqbtwoqwtbyrwut
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibpbjleptq,bpoqbylbt.obpepnbktldbyrwiwbewiybjlpiy
gspjfibpoqbpbrpoqk.sblkbuowhmwtuwojwqberuywibiwwdwqbolyruo bswiibyrpo
jleptqsna

Klssleuo bpssbyrui,byrwtwbrpqbljj.ttwqbuobyrwbpkywtollobyrpyberujr
kuopssnbqwjuqwqbyrwbImpouptqbyrpybrwbepibg.usquo bkltbrudiwskbponyruo 
lyrwtbyrpobpbgwqblkbtliwi,bpoqbyrpybyrwbillowtbrwbkl.oqbpobwhj.iwbklt
z.uyyuo byrwbjldmponblkbyrwbEpcutubyrwb twpywtbel.sqbgwbruibsukw
whmwjypojna

Yrwnbewtwbmpiiuo byrtl. rbtpyrwtblmwobv.o swbpybyrwbyudwabYrwbgt.irbepi
olybmptyuj.sptsnbrwpxnbpoqbyrwbytwwibewtwbpybjloiuqwtpgswbquiypojwi
pmpty,berwobi.qqwosn,beuyrl.ybeptouo ,bpbtruoljwtlibjrpt wqbyrwdabYlbyrw
jloiywtopyuloblkbyrwbEpcutu,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiby.towqbpoqbkswqbkltbyrw
owptwiybytwwbyrwbuoiypoybruibwnwibpsu rywqb.mlobjrpt uo bG.ylabUobrui
rpiywbWiywgpobytummwqbpoqbkwss,bpoqberwobpybspiybrwbtwpjrwqbyrwbytww
uoiywpqblkbswpmuo bp uswsnbuoylbyrwbslewtbgtpojrwi,brwbpyywdmywqbylbiruo
.mbyrwbr. wbglswbpibpbijrllsglnbiruoib.mbpbywsw tpmrbmlsw,blosnbylbisum
poqbkpssbgpjfbp puobylbyrwb tl.oqa

UobyrwbdwpoyudwbG.yl,berlbjrpt wibwuyrwtbgnbijwoybltbrwptuo ,btpyrwt
yrpobgnbwnwiu ry,bruibmlewtiblkberujrbptwbwhytwdwsnbmllt,brpqbgwwo
quiytpjywqbktldbruibltu uopsbqutwjyulobgnblowblkbyrwbEpcutu,bpoqbpkywt
duiiuo byrwbkwsslebrpqb lowbgs.oqwtuo blobylbquipmmwptbuobyrwb.oqwtgt.ir
gwnloqa

ErwobWiywgpobkuopssnbptliwbpoqbquijlxwtwqbyrpybyrwbtruoljwtlibepib low,
rwbipebi.ttl.oquo brudbpbiwdu-jutjswblkbr. wbgspjfi,b.mloberliwbkpjwi
ewtwbetuyywobwhmtwiiuloiblkbmuynbpoqbilttle,bolyb.oduo swq,buobildw
uoiypojwi,beuyrbpbyuo wblkbjloywdmyabYrwbImpouptqbipebyrpybrwbrpqbgwwo
ywttukuwqbuoylbpbmtpjyujpssnbuttwmptpgswbgs.oqwt,bnwybrwbiwucwq
qwimputuo snb.mlobyrwblosnbwhj.iwbrwbjl.sqbjlov.twb.ma

“Dnbmlltbrwpq,”brwbjtuwq,bmtwiiuo bglyrbmpsdibylbruibywdmswia

“Yrwbgslebepib.mlobnl.tb_rwpq_,bGepop,”bipuqb.i.sp,b“poqbnl.tbkpuyrk.s
Epcutubyrl. rybyrpybuybepibyrwb_rwpty_blkbyrwutbdpiywtbyrpybfowebol
kwpta”

Wiywgpobdpqwbolbtwmsn,bpoqbuobiuswojwbyrwnbtwi.dwqbyrwutbdptjrabUo
iuswojwbyrwnbjloyuo.wqb.oyusbyrwnbdpqwbjpdmbgwkltwbqptfb.mlobyrwbgpofblk
yrwbtuxwtbv.iybpglxwbpbepywtkpssabQ.tuo byrwbpkywtollobWiywgpobrpq
wxlsxwqbpbmspoblkbwijpmwbktldbruibquswddp,bpoqbolbillowtbrpqbrwbdpqw
jpdmbyrpobrwbltqwtwqbyrwbEpcutubylbg.tnbyrwbytwpi.twa

“Ewbirpssbswpxwbuybrwtw,”brwbipuq,b“poqbyldlttlebewbirpssbiwybkltyrbuo
iwptjrblkbyrwbyruwxwi,bkltbUbrpxwbqwjuqwqbylbm.ouirbyrwdabYrwnbd.iybgw
yp. rybyrpybyrwnbdpnbolybjldwbuoylbyrwbv.o swblkbYptcpobeuyrbudm.ouyna
Uybepiblosnbyrwbuov.tnbylbdnbrwpqbyrpybmtwxwoywqbdwbktldbispnuo byrwd
uddwqupywsnbUbquijlxwtwqbyrwutbmwtkuqna”

Yruibpyyuy.qwbmswpiwqbyrwbEpcutubgwyywtabYrwnbjlddwojwqbylbiwwbpbtpnblk
rlmwabLojwbp puobepibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibgwjlduo bYptcpoabPoqbilbuybepi
yrpybeuyrbsu rywtbrwptyibpoqbpbowebjrwwtk.sowiibyrwnbiwybkltyrbyrwbowhy
dltouo buobiwptjrblkbyrwbjpdmblkbyrwbWo suirdwo,bpoqbgnbirtweqb .wiiuo 
lob.i.sp’ibmptybyrwnbj.ybpjtliibyrwbv.o swbylbuoywtjwmybyrwbmtlgpgsw
suowblkbdptjrblkbyrwbW.tlmwpoibylbi.jrbpqxpoyp wbyrpybyrwnbjpdwb.mlo
yrwdbv.iybpibyrwnbewtwbdpfuo bjpdmbyrpybou ryabSlo bgwkltwbyrwnbtwpjrwq
yrwdbyrwnbidwsswqbyrwbidlfwblkbyrwutbkutwibpoqbrwptqbyrwbilo ibpoq
jrpyywtblkbyrwbewiybjlpiybjpttuwtia

YrwobuybepibyrpybWiywgpob pyrwtwqbyrwbEpcutubpgl.ybrudab“Dnbjrusqtwo,”
rwbipuq,bpqqtwiiuo b.i.spbuobWo suir,b“yrwiwbiytpo wtibrpxwbjldwbrwtwbyl
etlo bYptcpoabYlbYptcpo,byrwo,bgwslo ibyrwbxwo wpojwab l,byrwtwkltw,bpoq
swpxwbdwbylbm.ouirbdnbwowduwibpslowbpoqbuobdnbleobepnabTwy.tobrldw,
swpxwbyrwb lsqberwtwbuybui,bkltbuybeussbgwbpbslo byudwbgwkltwbUbirpss
owwqbuya”

YrwbEpcutubewtwbquipmmluoywq,bkltbyruibowebmspobquqbolybpybpssbpjjltq
euyrbyrwutbqwiutwi,berujrbjloywdmspywqbpbjrwwtk.sbdpiipjtwblkbyrwbewiy
jlpiybgspjfiabG.ybpibnwybyrwbdpobgwkltwbyrwdbepibYptcpo,byrwutbgu 
Gepop,bylberldbyrwnbrpqbowxwtbkpuswqbuobudmsujuyblgwquwojwabKltbpbkwe
dldwoyibklssleuo bWiywgpo’ibqwjsptpyuloblkbruibuoywoyulo,byrwnbiyllqbuo
iuswojwbirukyuo b.owpiusn,bpoqbyrwobpybspiybyrwnbjlddwojwqbylbimwpfbyl
lowbpolyrwtbuobEpcutuabErpybyrwnbipuqbyrwbImpouptqbquqbolybfole,bg.y
wxuqwoysnbyrwnbewtwb.t uo bildwyruo b.mlob.i.sp,berlbmtwiwoysnby.towq
yleptqbruda

“Lr,bGepop,”bjtuwqbyrwbgspjfab“Rlebjpobewbtwy.tobrldwbylbyrwbSpqnbVpow
poqbywssbrwtbyrpybewbswkybnl.buov.twqbpoqbpslowbylbkpjwbyrwbtukswiblk
yrwberuywbdwobpoqbyrwutbpifptu?bQlbolybpifb.ibylbqlbuy,bGepopabUkbnl.
ewtwbnl.tiwskbewbirl.sqbolybkwptbkltbnl.tbipkwyn,bg.ybiuojwbyrwbuov.tn
ylbnl.tbrwpqbnl.brpxwbolybgwwobyrwbipdw,bpoqbewbkwptbylbswpxwbnl.bpslow
uobyrwbv.o swabSwyb.i,byrwo,bnl.tbkpuyrk.sbEpcutu,bm.ouirbyrwiwbmwlmsw,
pkywtberujrbewbeussbypfwbnl.brldwbuobipkwyn,berwtwbnl.bdpnbgwbj.twqblk
yrwbwxusibyrpybrpxwbkpsswob.mlobnl.a”

YrwbImpouptqbsp. rwqab“Ubpdbwoyutwsnbtwjlxwtwq,”brwbipuq,b“poqbUbpdbuo
olbdltwbqpo wtbpslowbyrpobUbel.sqbgwbeuyrbnl.,”berujrbrwbfowe,bwxwo
gwyywtbyrpobyrwn,bepibg.ybpbdusqbiypywdwoyblkbyrwbkpjyiab“Nl.beussblgwn
dnbeuirwi,”brwbjloyuo.wqbiywtosnab“ lbgpjfbpyblojwbyrwbepnbyrpybewbrpxw
jldwabPkywtbnl.brpxwb lowbpybswpiybyelbduswibnl.bdpnbdpfwbjpdmbkltbyrw
ou ry,bpoqbuobyrwbdltouo biyptybl.ybp puobkltbrldwabDpfwbolboluiw,bUbql
olybepoybyrwdbylbfolebyrpybUbpdbrwtwabQlbolybelttnbpgl.ybdwabUbpdbpss
tu ry,bpoqbUbirpssbmtlgpgsnblxwtypfwbnl.bgwkltwbnl.btwpjrbrldwab l!”

Ilttlek.ssnbyrwbEpcutuby.towqbgpjfb.mlobyrwbytpusbyrwnbrpqbv.iybjlxwtwq
poqbpbdldwoybspywtbyrwbspiyblkbyrwdbquipmmwptwqbktldbyrwbiu ryblkbyrw
Impouptqa

Euyrbpbiu rblkbtwsuwkbWiywgpobDutpoqpby.towqbyleptqbyrwbjpdmblkbruibleo
mwlmswabKwptuo byrpybylbi.tmtuiwbyrwdbi.qqwosnbdu rybuoxuywbpbxlsswnblk
irlyibktldbyrwbpifptubrwberuiyswq,bpoqbyrwobjpsswqbpsl.qbpibrw
pmmtlpjrwqa

“UybuibYptcpo!”bjtuwqbyrwbkutiyblkbyrwbgspjfiberlbipebrudab“Olebuoqwwq
irpssbewbpssbgwbfusswqa”

Wiywgpobipebyrwb tleuo bwhjuywdwoybpdlo byrwbjpttuwtibpoqbpifptu—rwbipe
yrwbspyywtbiwucwbyrwutbtukswibpoqbyrpybyrwnbewtwbkuo wtuo byrwbytu  wti
owtxl.isna

“UybuibU,bWiywgpobDutpoqp,”brwbjpsswqbpsl.qab“Ksltp!bKsltp,bywssbyrliw
kllsibylbspnbpiuqwbyrwutbtukswia”

Yrwberuywi,byll,bewtwbiypoquo bepyjruo brud,bpoqbpybyrwbil.oqblkbrui
xlujwbKsltpby.towqbyleptqbyrwbgspjfiab“Uybuibpssbtu ry,”birwbipuq,b“yrpy
uibolybYptcpoabSpnbpiuqwbnl.tbtukswia”

Wiywgpobwoywtwqbyrwbjpdm,bidusuo ab“RwtwbUbpd,”brwbipuqa

“Ewbyrl. rybyrpybnl.bewtwbqwpq,”bipuqbFtpifuab“Ildwblkbyrwiwbkwsslei
ipuqbyrpybYptcpobipuqbyrpybrwbrpqbfusswqbnl.a”

“Rwbjpmy.twqbdw,”bipuqbWiywgpo,b“g.ybpibnl.biwwbrwbquqbolybfussbdwabU
yrl. rybyrpybrwbepib luo byl,bg.ybrwbquqboly,bpoqbkuopssnbrwby.towqbdw
slliwbuobyrwbv.o swabRwbdpnbrpxwbyrl. rybyrpybUbjl.sqbolybi.txuxwbpoq
yrpybrwbel.sqbpjjldmsuirbruibwoqbv.iybpibi.twsnbeuyrl.ybrpxuo bdnbgsllq
.mlobruibrpoqia”

“’Wbd.iybrpxwbfolewqbnl.,”bipuqbMwwgswiab“Nl.’qbquw,bpssbtu ry,bukbnl.
ewtwbswkybpslowbxwtnbslo buobyrwbv.o sw—nl.’qbiyptxwbylbqwpyra”

Wiywgpobdpqwbolbtwmsnbylbyrwbipssnbg.yby.towqbyleptqbKsltpab“Ptwbnl.boly
 spqbylbiwwbdw,bKsltp?”brwbpifwqa

Yrwb utsbirt.  wqbrwtbirl.sqwtiab“Erpybuibyrwbqukkwtwojw?”birwbpifwqa
“L.tbwhmwquyulobuibpbkpus.twabIldwblkbyrwdbyruofbnl.bewtwbspt wsnbyl
gspdwa”bIrwbolqqwqbrwtbrwpqbuobyrwb wowtpsbqutwjyuloblkbyrwblyrwt
eruywia

YrwbImpouptqbijleswqabOlowblkbyrwdbjptwqbxwtnbd.jrbylbiwwbrudabRwbquq
olybjptwbpgl.ybyrwblyrwti,bg.ybrwbrpqbrlmwqbyrpybKsltpbel.sqbirlebildw
woyr.iupidbpgl.ybruibtwy.toabEwss,bukbirwbrpqbfoleoberpybrwbrpqbuobrui
duoq,birwbdu rybrpxwbgwwobrpmmuwtbylbiwwbrud,bpoqblosnbyllb spqbylbirle
ildwbfuoqblkbpkkwjyuloabG.ybirwbquqbolybfoleabIrwbquqbolybfolebyrpy
WiywgpobDutpoqpbrpqbruqqwobyrwb lsqwobuo lyiberwtwbrwbdu ryb lbpolyrwt
qpnbpoqb wybyrwdabUybrpqbgwwobruibuoywoyulobylbmwti.pqwbrwtbylbqwiwty
yrwblyrwti,bpoqbyrwo,bspywt,byrwbyelbel.sqbtwy.tobpoqbtwjlxwtbyrw
ytwpi.tw,bg.ybolebrwbepibmuz.wqbpoqblkkwoqwq—olowblkbyrwdbirl.sqbrpxwbp
irussuo blkbuy—rwbel.sqbepuyb.oyusbyrwnbswkybPktujpbpoqbyrwobrwbel.sq
twy.tobpoqbypfwbuybpssbkltbrudiwskabYrwblosnbksnbuobyrwbluoydwoybepibyrw
yrl. rybyrpybyrwbEpcutubfowebyrwbsljpyuloblkbyrwbytwpi.tw,bpoqbyrpy,
illowtbltbspywt,byrwnbel.sqbtwy.tobeuyrbYptcpobpoqb wybuyabYruibewpf
imlybuobruibjpsj.spyuloibd.iybgwbiytwo yrwowq,bpoqbylbiytwo yrwobuybrw
d.iybrpxwbpiiuiypojwberujrbel.sqbdwpobirptuo bruibiwjtwybeuyrbpolyrwt,
g.yberld?

L.yeptqsnblgsuxul.iblkbyrwbi.sswob spojwiblkbruibjldmpouloibrwbyllfbrui
mspjwbpdlo byrwdabUybepibwxuqwoybylbrudbyrpybyrwnbewtwbkptbktldbgwuo 
 spqbylbiwwbrud,bg.ybv.iybernbrwbquqbolybfole,bkltbrwbrpqbolybrwptqblk
yrwbmspobyrpybFtpifubpoqbLepcpbrpqbrpyjrwqbylbiywpsbyrwbsllyblkbyrw
uxltnbtpuqwti,bpoqbyrpybyrwutbdpuoblgvwjyulobylbruibmtwiwojwbepibyrw
kwptbyrpybyrwnbel.sqbgwbjldmwsswqbylbirptwbyrwbsllybeuyrbrudabUybepi
Ftpifuberlbkutiybxlujwqbyrwbyrl. rybyrpybepibuobyrwbduoqiblkbpssbg.y
Wiywgpoa

“Dutpoqp,”brwbipuq,b“uybuibyrwbjloiwoi.iblkblmuoulobyrpybnl.bpoqbGs.gwt
ptwbspt wsnbtwimloiugswbkltbyrwbkpus.twblkbl.tbxwoy.twabEwbptwboly
kuoquo bkp.syabUbv.iybdwoyulobuybpibpbkpjyabG.ybiuojwbnl.brpxwbgwwobpepn
ewbrpxwbiyt.jfb.mlobpbmspobylbypfwbildwyruo bl.yblkbPktujpbyrpybeuss
mptyupssnbtwjldmwoiwb.ibkltbyrwbsliiblkbyrwb lsqabEwbrpxwbeltfwqbyrw
yruo bpssbl.ybjptwk.ssnbpoqbdpqwbl.tbmspoiabEwbqlo’ybowwqbnl.bylbjpttn
yrwdbl.yabEwbrpxwbolblgvwjyulobylbnl.tbjlduo bpslo beuyrb.i,bukbnl.bepoy
yl,bkltbjldmpon,bg.ybewbepoybylbrpxwbuyb.oqwtiyllqbktldbyrwbgw uoouo 
yrpybnl.bptwbolybylbirptwbuobponyruo byrpybewb wybl.yblkbyruia”

YrwbImpouptqbiduswqbpoqbepxwqbpb wiy.twblkb.ojlojwtoab“Uybuibmwtkwjysn
pssbtu ry,”brwbipuqab“Ubirpssbpifbkltbolyruo abUbel.sqbolybeuirbylbypfw
ponyruo bktldbponblkbnl.a”bPoqbrwb tuoowqbuoeptqsnbpibrwbyrl. ryblkbyrw
dltwbyrpobz.ptywtblkbpbdussulobml.oqibuob lsqberujrbrwbel.sqblowbqpn
ypfwbl.yblkbPktujpbkltbrudiwsk,bpslowa

Pybyruib.owhmwjywqbpyyuy.qwblkbpjz.uwijwojwb.mlobWiywgpo’ibmptybyrw
lyrwtibewtwb twpysnbtwsuwxwq,bpoqbuddwqupywsnbyrwbwoyutwbpydlimrwtwblk
jloiytpuoybepibtwdlxwqa

“Nl.’twbpb llqbkwssle,bWiywgpo,”bipuqbMwwgswiab“U’xwbgwwobipnuo’btu ry
pslo byrpybnl.’qbepoybylbqlbyrwbtu rybyruo ,bpoqbUbepoybylbipnbyrpybU’d
du rynb spqbylbiwwbnl.bgpjfbrwtwbipkwbpo’bil.oqabUbkwsybywttugswberwobU
’wptqbnl.bepibjtlpfwq,byrpybUbquqa”

“Nwi,”bipuqbGs.gwt,b“Vlrobrwbkwwsbilbgpqbrwbjtnbrudiwskbylbiswwmbwxwtn
ou ry,bpuo’ybuy,bVlro?”

“Qlo’ybytnbylbiyptybolyruo’,bGs.gwt,”b tleswqbMwwgswi,b sptuo bpybyrw
Vwea

“Ubxpio’ybjlddwojuo bylbiyptybolqquo ,”btwmsuwqbPqlsmr,biwwuo byrpybyrw
gu bWo suirdpobepibpo tn;b“lkbjl.tiwbxwbxwtwbpssbilttnbqpybxwby’l. ry
Wiywgpobepibfusswqb.oqbxwbuibpssb spqbqlybrwbuibgpjfa”

“Poqbyrpybrwbqlo’ybepoybponblkbyrwbiep ,”bpqqwqbYrtljfa

“Qlo’ybelttn,”bipuqbWiywgpo,b“UkbUb wybgpjfbylbSloqlobU’ssbgwbrpmmn
wol. r—U’xwbrpqbwol. rblkbPktujpbylbspiybdwbpssbyrwbtwiyblkbdnbsukwa”

Gwkltwbrwbjl.sqb wybylbiswwmbyrpybou ry,byrwbImpouptqbimwoybpbepfwk.s
rl.tbltbyelbytnuo bylbwxlsxwbpbmspoberwtwgnbrwbdu rybiwj.twbyrwb lsq
pgils.ywsnbylbrudiwsk,beuyrl.ybkwptblkbuyibgwuo btwdlxwqbgnbyrwbEpcutu
spywtabRwbfowebyrpybrwbjl.sqbwpiusnbkuoqbyrwbimlyberwtwbrwbrpqbg.tuwqbuy
poqbtwdlxwbuybylbpolyrwtbjsliwbgn,bmtlxuqwqbyrpybrwbjl.sqbtwy.to
uddwqupywsnblxwtbyrwbytpusbpslo berujrb.i.spbrpqbswqbyrwdbyrpybqpn,bpoq
rwbjl.sqbqlbyruibpslow,buoi.tuo byrpybolblowbg.ybrudiwskbel.sqbfolebyrw
owebsljpyuloblkbyrwbruquo bmspjwblkbyrwb lsq,bg.ybrwbepibwz.pssn
mliuyuxwbyrpybrwbjl.sqbowxwtbp puobtwy.tobspywtbktldbyrwbjlpiybpoqbkuoq
erwtwbrwbrpqbruqqwobuyabYruibdwpoybyrpybrwbd.iybirptwbruibiwjtwybeuyr
polyrwt—lowbkpdusuptbeuyrbyrwbjl.oytnberlbjl.sqbkuoqbyrwbimlybp puobpy
ponbyudwbpoqbktldbponbqutwjyuloabG.yberlbepibyrwtwberldbrwbdu rybyt.iy!
Uobruibduoqbrwbewoybjptwk.ssnblxwtbyrwbwoyutwbmwtiloowsblkbyrwutbipkptu,
poqbjloyuo.pssnbruibduoqbtwxwtywqbylbpbiuo swbuoquxuq.ps—LepcpabRwbrpq
olbjlokuqwojwbuobyrwbeusnblsqbijl.oqtws’ibuoyw tuyn,bg.ybyrwtwbepibol
lyrwtberlbi.uywqbruibm.tmliwbpibewss,bpoqbkuopssnbrwbepibkltjwqbylbyrw
jlojs.iulobyrpybrwbd.iybirptwbruibiwjtwybeuyrbyruibgspjf,bpoqbqwmwoq
.mlobpxptujwbtpyrwtbyrpobrloltbkltbruibmtlywjyuloabRwbjl.sqbtwmpnbyrw
kwsslebewss—dpfwbrudbtujrbgwnloqbruibeusqwiybqtwpdi,bpoqbyruibyrw
Impouptqbjl.sqbewssbpkkltqbylbqlbuobxuweblkbyrwbytwdwoql.ibklty.owbpy
iypfwabPoqbilbrwbkwssbpiswwmbqtwpduo blkberpyb lsq,bylbyrwbxps.wblkblxwt
pbz.ptywtblkbpbdussulobml.oqibiywtsuo ,bel.sqbpjjldmsuirbuobyrwb pn
jpmuypsiblkbyrwbeltsqa

Yrwbklssleuo bdltouo beruswbyrwnbewtwbgtwpfkpiyuo bWiywgpobdwoyulowq
jpi.pssnbyrpybrwbrpqbmpiiwqbpbspt wbrwtqblkbpoywslmwbolybkptbktldbyrwut
jpdmbyrwbmtwxul.ibqpn,bpoqbi.  wiywqbyrpybrwbypfwbkl.tbltbkuxwbdwobpoq
qlbpbsuyyswbr.oyuo ,bvluouo byrwbgpspojwblkbyrwbmptynbpybjpdmbyrpy
ou ryabOlblowbtpuiwqbponblgvwjyulo,bmliiugsnbkltbyrwbtwpilobyrpybyrwn
pii.dwqbyrpybyrwbdltwbrwbr.oywqbpoqbyrwbk.tyrwtbktldbyrwbipkptubrwbewoy
yrwb twpywtbyrwbjrpojwiblkbruibgwuo bfusswq,bpbjloyuo wojnbyrpybolowblk
yrwdbel.sqbrpxwbtw twyywq,biuojwbpybrwptybyrwnbrpqbowuyrwtbsufuo bolt
yt.iybkltbruda

“UbeussbypfwbLepcp,”brwbipuqab“Rwbuibyrwbjswxwtwiybr.oywtblkbyrwdbpss,
poqbkuxwbltbiuhbdwoblkbruibjrlliuo a”bG.ybspywt,berwobrwbpmmtlpjrwq
Lepcp,byrwbgspjfbuoywtmliwqblgvwjyuloibylbyrwbr.oya

“Ewbrpxwbmswoynblkbdwpybkltbyelbqpni,”brwbipuqab“Swyb.ib lblobpibkpiybpi
ewbjpo,bpepnbktldbyrwbspoqblkbyrwbEpcutubpoqbYptcpoabUbjpobkuoqbmswoyn
lkb pdwbponerwtwbgwyewwobrwtwbpoqbyrwbjlpiyabDptjrbkltbyelbqpni,bpoq
yrwobUbeussbr.oybeuyrbnl.a”

“Suiywo,”bipuqbWiywgpo,buobpberuimwtab“UybuibdltwbyrpobpoywslmwbyrpybU
el.sqbr.oyabUbjpoolybywssbnl.brwtwbuobjpdm,bg.yberwobewbrpxwbswkybyrw
lyrwtibUbeussbwhmspuoabUybeussbmpnbnl.bgwyywtbylbjldwbeuyrbdwbylqpnbyrpo
pssbyrwbuxltnbnl.bjpobrlmwbylb wybktldbyrwbtpuqwtia”bLepcpbjljfwqbpo
pyywoyuxwbwptbpoqbijtpyjrwqbruibellssnbrwpqa

“Uybuibpb llqbqpnbylbr.oy,bGepop,”brwbipuqab“Ubeussbjldwbeuyrbnl.bpoq
gtuo bkuxwbglnia”

PkywtbLepcpbrpqbmspoowqbyrwbdptjrbkltbyrwbdpuobmptynbpoqbpttpo wqbklt
yrwbjpdmuo bmspjwbkltbyrwbou ry,bilbyrpybrwbpoqbyrwbImpouptqbjl.sqbkuoq
yrwdbp puo,byrwbr.oyuo bmptynbiwybl.yb.mlobyrwbytpusbyrpyb.i.spbrpq
klsslewqbktldbyrwbg.tuwqbytwpi.twbyrwbmtwjwquo bqpnabYrwnbrpqbolyb low
kptbgwkltwbLepcpbquijlxwtwqbyrwbktwirbimlltblkbyrwbEpcutua

“Dponbdwobmpiiwqbrwtwbspywbnwiywtqpn,”brwbipuqbylbWiywgpo,bwnwuo byrw
Impouptqbz.uccujpssna

“Ubipebolyruo blkbyrwd,”btwmsuwqbyrwbspyywtab“Yrwnbd.iybrpxwbjldwbyrui
epnbpkywtbUbmpiiwqa”

“Yrwnbjpdwbpsdliybylbl.tbjpdm,bpoqbyrwobyrwnby.towqbpgl.ybpoqbewoybpepn
p puo,”bipuqbLepcpab“Suiywo,bGepop,bUbjpttnbpbtukswbpoqbnl.birpssbdptjr
prwpqblkbdwabUkbyrwiwbytpjfibewtwbdpqwbgnbnl.tbmwlmsw,bpoqbnl.bptw
swpquo bdwbuoylbpdg.ir,bnl.birpssbgwbyrwbkutiybylbquwa”

“Suiywo,bLepcp,”bipuqbWiywgpo,b“ewbptwbkptbwol. rbktldbjpdmbolebilbyrpy
Ubdpnbywssbnl.bpssabYrwiwbytpjfibewtwbdpqwbgnbyrwbEpcutublkbYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwi,berlbg.tuwqbyrwb lsqbkltbdwbpbqpn’ibdptjrbktldbrwtwabUbrpxw
iwoybyrwdbrldw,bpoqbUbeuirbnl.bylb lbgpjfbeuyrbdwbpoqbdlxwbyrwb lsqbyl
polyrwtbruquo bmspjwabPkywtbyrwiwblyrwtibrpxwb lyywobyrwutbuxltnbpoq
twy.towqbylbWo spoq,bnl.bpoqbUbeussbjldwbgpjfbpoqb wybyrwb lsq,bpoq
yrwo,buoqwwq,birpssbnl.bgwbewssbtweptqwqa”

“Erlbptwbnl.,byrwo?”bpifwqbLepcpab“LkywobrpxwbUbql.gywqbyrpybnl.bptw
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabYrwbqpnbyrpybewbswkybyrwbjpdmbl.yiuqwblkbLmptblowblk
dnbdwobylsqbdwbyrpybnl.brpqbgwwobmluilowqbgnbnl.tbleobmwlmswbpoqbswkybuo
yrwbjpdmabRwbipuqbyrpybrwbipebuybeuyrbruibleobwnwi—nl.tbglqnbsnuo 
ruqqwobgwruoqbildwbg.irwi—poqbnwybnl.bewtwbeuyrb.ib.mlobyrwbdptjrbyrpy
qpnabUbyrl. rybyrpybrwbsuwqbylbdw,bg.ybUbipebyrwbjloiywtopyulobuobrui
kpjwberwobrwbipebnl.,bpoqbilbUbrpxwblkywobeloqwtwqbukbyrwtwbewtwbyel
YptcpoiblkbyrwbPmwia”

“UbpdbolybYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”bipuqbWiywgpoab“UybepibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi
erlbepibmluilowqbuobl.tbjpdmbgnbyrwblyrwtiabG.ybyrwnblosnb pxwbrud
ildwyruo byrpybel.sqbm.ybrudbylbiswwmbkltbpbslo byudw,bmliiugsnbeuyrbyrw
rlmwbyrpybrwbel.sqbgwbfusswqbgnbeusqbpoudpsibgwkltwbrwbpelfwabErwyrwtblt
olybrwbiyussbsuxwibewbqlbolybfoleabYrwtwkltwbnl.brpxwbolyruo bylbkwpt
ktldbyrwbEpcutubltbYptcpoblobdnbpjjl.oy,bLepcp,bkltbUbepoybylbfwwmbl.y
lkbyrwutbepnbwxwobdltwbyrpobnl.a”

Yrwbgspjfbolqqwqab“Mwtrpmibnl.bimwpfbyrwbyt.yr,”brwbipuq,bg.ybiyussbrw
epsfwqbgwruoq,beuyrbruibtukswbpsepnibtwpqnbuobruibrpoqa

Yrwnbewoybeptusn,bkltbkwptblkblxwtypfuo byrwbEpcutu,bg.ybirltysnbpkywt
mpiiuo byrwbimlyberwtwbyrwbspyywtbrpqbjpdmwqbyrwnbipebyrpybyrwnbrpq
ypfwobpolyrwtbtl.ywbpoqbyrpybyrwtwbepibolebolbqpo wtblkbjlduo buo
jloypjybeuyrbyrwda

Erwobyrwnbrpqbtwpjrwqbpbmluoybeuyruobpgl.ybpbduswblkbyrwbimlyberwtwbyrw
 lsqbrpqbgwwobg.tuwq,bWiywgpobylsqbLepcpbylbrpxwbruibglnibtwdpuobyrwtw
eruswbyrwnbewoybprwpqbpslowbylbwkkwjybyrwbytpoikwtblkbyrwbuo lyia

“Yrwbkwewtberlbfoleblkbyrui,”brwbipuqbylbyrwbgspjf,b“yrwbipkwtbewbirpss
gwa”

“YrwbGepopbimwpfibeltqiblkbeuiqld,”btwmsuwqbyrwbeusnbgspjfa

Wiywgpobkl.oqbyrwbimlybowptbyrwbepywtkpssbeuyrl.ybqukkuj.syn,bpoqb.mlo
z.wiyulouo bLepcpbrwbquijlxwtwqbyrpybyrwbspyywtbfowebyrwbsljpyulo
mwtkwjysn,bpoqbel.sqbrpxwbolbqukkuj.synbuobjlduo bqutwjysnbylbuybp puo
ktldbyrwbjlpiyabYrwnbytpoikwttwqbyrwb lsqbg.ybpbirltybquiypojw,
jlojwpsuo buybuobpbrwpxnbyrujfwybowptbyrwbwq wblkbyrwbtuxwt,bfoleuo 
yrpybuybel.sqbgwbpibipkwbktldbquijlxwtnbyrwtwbpibyrl. rbyrwnbrpq
ytpoimltywqbuybpbr.oqtwqbduswi,bkltbyrwbjrpojwibewtwbwhytwdwsnbisu ry
yrpybyrwbEpcutubltbponlowbwsiwberlbirl.sqbswptoblkbuyibltu uopsbruquo 
mspjwbel.sqbudp uowbyrpybponlowbel.sqb lbylbyrwbytl.gswblkbtwdlxuo buy
g.ybpbdpyywtblkbpbr.oqtwqbnptqia

ErwobyrwnbrpqbkuouirwqbLepcpbsllfwqbpybyrwbi.oa

“Ewbeussbowxwtbtwpjrbjpdmbylou ry,”brwbipuq,b“poqbewbeussbrpxwbylbytpxws
kpiybylblxwtypfwbyrwdbwxwobyldlttlea”

“Ubquqbolybwhmwjybyl,”btwmsuwqbWiywgpo,b“g.ybUbjl.sqbolybywssbyrwdbyrpya
Ukbewbowxwtbkuoqbyrwdbp puobUbirpssbgwbipyuikuwqa”bLepcpb tuoowqabUobrui
jtpkynbduoqbpobuqwpbepibkltdwqa

“Ern,”brwbyrl. ry,b“tuifbqwpyrbuobpbgpyyswbeuyrbyrwbPtpgbuxltnbtpuqwti
lobyrwbjrpojwblkbiwj.tuo bpbkweby.ifi,berwobpssbyruib lsqbpepuyiblosn
ytpoimltypyulobylbyrwbjlpiybylbgwbl.ti?”




[Uss.iytpyulo:bYptcpobipebpberuywbdpo,bgpsqbpoqblsqbpoqbirtuxwswqbeuyrbp
slo beruywbgwptq]




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHUUU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbPbIYTPO W,bKSPYbYLEWT


YPTCPO,by.touo ,bquijlxwtwqbyrwbdpobiypoquo bgwruoqbrudblobyrwbylmbswxws
lkbyrwbuxn-jlxwtwqbwpiybylewtblkbyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqiabRuibfoukw
swpmwqbktldbuyibirwpyrbpybyrwbyl.jrblkbruibz.ujfbkuo wtiabG.ybpsdliy
iud.sypowl.isnbruibrpoqbqtlmmwqbylbruibiuqw,bpoqbrwbiyllqbjloywdmspyuo 
yrwblyrwt,beuyrbpobwhmtwiiuloblkbuojtwq.suynb.mlobruibkpjwbyrpybg.y
twkswjywqbpbiudusptbwdlyulobtw uiywtwqb.mlobyrwbjl.oywopojwblkbyrw
iytpo wtabKltberpybYptcpobipebepibolbGls pou,boltbpb ldpo pou,bg.ybp
eruywbdpo,bgpsqbpoqblsqbpoqbirtuxwswq,beuyrbpbslo ,beruywbgwptq—pberuyw
dpo,bopfwqbg.ybkltbgptgptujbltopdwoyiblkb lsqbimpo swibpoqbqupdloqia

“ lq!”bwhjspudwqbyrwbiytpo wbpmmptuyuloa

Yptcpobwnwqbyrwblyrwtbz.uccujpssnabYrpybiuo swbWo suirbeltqblmwowqb.m
i.jrbytwdwoql.ibmliiugusuyuwibkltbjlovwjy.twbpibgpkkswqbyrwbduoqblkbyrw
pmw-dpoa

“Erpybptwbnl.?bErlbptwbnl.?”bjloyuo.wqbyrwblsqbdpo,bg.ybyruibyudwbuobyrw
qupswjyblkbyrwb twpybpmwia

“Nl.b.iwqbpobWo suirbeltqbpbdldwoybp l,”bipuqbYptcpoab“Qlbnl.bimwpfbyrpy
spo .p w?”bYptcpobrudiwskbimlfwbuobWo suira

“Pr,bqwptb lq!”bjtuwqbyrwblsqbdpo,b“yrpybUbirl.sqbrpxwbsuxwqbylbrwpt
yrpybiewwybylo .wbp puoa”bPoqbrw,byll,bolebimlfwbuobWo suir,brpsyuo 
Wo suir,bpibdu ryblowberlbepibslo b.opjj.iyldwqbylbxlujuo byrwbspo .p wa

“Erlbptwbnl.?”bpifwqbYptcpo,b“poqberpybptwbnl.bqluo brwtw?”

“Uybuibyrwbipdwbz.wiyulobyrpybUbpifwqbnl.,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpoab“Qlboly
gwbpktpuqbylbpoiewtbdwabNl.bptwbwxuqwoysnbpobWo suirdpo,bpoqbnl.brpxw
olyruo bylbkwptbktldbdwa”

“Ubpdbrwtwbpkywtbpbeldpo,bjpmy.twqbgnbyrwbGls pou,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoa

Yrwblyrwtbolqqwqab“Nwi,”brwbipuq,b“UbfoleabIrwbuibrwtwa”

“Uibirwbipkw?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“IrwbrpibolybgwwobrptdwqabIrwbeussbgwbipkwb.oyusbyldlttlebltbyrwbowhy
qpn,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpoab“G.yberlbptwbnl.,bpoqbrlebquqbnl.bkuoqbnl.t
epnbrwtwbktldbyrwbl.ywtbeltsq?”

“UbpdbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Ubjpdwbuoylbyruibxpsswn
sllfuo bkltbpbepnbl.yblkbyrwbxpsswnblkbLmptberwtwbyrwbsukwblkbdn
jldmpoulobepibuobqpo wtabPoqbnl.?”

“Ubpdbpoblsqbdpo,”btwmsuwqbyrwblyrwt,b“poqbUbrpxwbgwwobrwtwbwxwtbiuojwbU
epibpbglnabUbepibpbiylepepnblobyrwbirumbyrpybgtl. rybIyposwnbylbPktujp
pkywtbyrwbwiypgsuirdwoyblkbyrwbiypyuloblobIyposwnbMlls,bpoqbUbjpdwbuoyl
yrwbuoywtultbeuyrbrudabUbewoybl.ybktldbjpdmbylbr.oy,bpslow,blowbqpnabU
sliybdnbepnbpoqbspywtbepibjpmy.twqbgnb.oktuwoqsnbopyuxwiabYrwnbyllfbdw
kptyrwtbuoylbyrwbuoywtultbylbyrwutbxussp wbktldberujrbUbkuopssnbwijpmwq,
g.ybilb.yywtsnbjlok.iwqbpoqbsliybyrpybUbrpqbolbuqwpberpybqutwjyulobyl
ypfwbylbkuoqbpbytpusbylbyrwbjlpiyabUbepoqwtwqbyr.ibkltbdloyri,b.oyus
kuopssn,b.mlobpobpjj.tiwqbqpnbUbkl.oqbpobwoytpojwbylbyruibxpsswnabUbql
olybfolebernbyrwnbquqbolybm.ybdwbylbqwpyrbpyblojw,bg.ybyrwnbquqboly,bpoq
spywtbyrwnbquijlxwtwqbyrpybdnbfoleswq wbjl.sqbgwby.towqbylbpqxpoyp wbyl
yrwdabIuojwbyrwobUbrpxwbrwsmwqbyrwdbuobyrwutbz.pttnuo bpoqbduouo bpoqbuo
yrwutbqupdloqbj.yyuo abUbrpxwb uxwobyrwdbutlobqtussibeuyrbrptqwowq
mluoyibpoqbqtussibyummwqbeuyrbqupdloqiabOlebUbpdbmtpjyujpssnblowblk
yrwd,bg.ybpsepnibuobdnbrwptybrpibgwwobyrwbrlmwbyrpybildwbqpnbUbdu ry
wijpmwbktldbyrwbxpsswn—pbrlmwswiibrlmw,byrl. r,bUbdpnbpii.twbnl.a”

“Yrwtwbuibolbepnbl.y?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Yrwtwbuibpbepn,bg.ybuybuibpsepnib .ptqwqa”

“Erwtwbuibuy?”bz.wtuwqbYptcpoa

“Uybuibpbjloyuo.pyuloblkblowblkbyrwbduowby.oowsi,bmpiiuo bwoyutwsn
yrtl. rbyrwbdl.oypuobylbyrwbxpsswnbgwnloqabYrwbduowibrpxwbgwwobeltfwqbgn
yrwbpojwiyltiblkbyruibtpjwbkltbpobpsdliybuojpsj.spgswbswo yrblkbyudwa
Yrwbdl.oypuoibptwbrlownjldgwqbeuyrbyrwutbirpkyibpoqby.oowsiabGpjfblkbyrw
 lsq-gwptuo bz.ptycbsuwibpobwoltdl.ibqwmliuyblkbpsywtwqbmwtuqlyuyw,
erujrbjloypuoibqupdloqi,buobyrwbiwptjrbkltberujrbuybwxuqwoysnbgwjpdw
owjwiiptnbylbwhywoqblowblkbyrwbirpkyibylbyrwblmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrw
dl.oypuo,bmliiugsnbkltbm.tmliwiblkbxwoyuspyuloabYruiby.oowsbpoqbyrw
ytpusbswpquo bqleobuoylbLmptbptwbyrwblosnbdwpoiblkbuo twiibylbyrw
xpsswnabKtldbyudwbuddwdltupsbyrwnbrpxwbfwmybyrwby.oowsb .ptqwq,bdltw
mptyuj.sptsn,bUbudp uow,bylbmtwxwoybyrwbwijpmwblkbispxwibyrpobylbyrepty
yrwbuotlpqiblkbpobwowdn,biuojwbyrwnbgwsuwxwbyrpybyrwtwbuibolbkwptblkbyrw
spyywtbwdwt wojnabYrwbytpusbylbLmptbyrwnbqlbolyb .ptq,bgwjp.iwbyrwnbol
slo wtbkwptbyrwbLmptupoi,bpoqbfolebz.uywbewssbyrpybolowblkbyrwut
 ldpo poubispxwibel.sqbqptwbwoywtbyrwbxpsswnblkbyrwbi.oeltirumwtiabKlt
yrwbipdwbtwpilo,byrwo,byrpybyrwbispxwibjpoolybwijpmw,bew,byll,bd.iy
twdpuobmtuilowtibrwtwbkltwxwta”

“Rlebuibyrwby.oowsb .ptqwq?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“YelbGls poubpoqbpbqlcwobltbdltwb ldpo poubepttultibptwbpsepnib.mlobq.yn
yrwtw,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpoa

“Yrwb ldpo poubel.sqbsufwbylbwijpmw?”

“Yrwnbrpxwbytuwqbuybdponbyudwibuobyrwbmpiy,bUbpdbylsq,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsq
dpo,b“yrl. rbowxwtbiuojwbUbrpxwbsuxwqbrwtw,bpoqbpsepnibyrwnbewtwbjp. ry
poqbylty.twqabPoqbpssbyrwutbtpjwbepibm.ouirwqbpoqbeltfwqbyrwbrptqwt
gwjp.iwblkbyrwiwbpyywdmyib.mlobyrwbmptyblkbpbkwea”

“Yrwnbptwbo.dwtl.i—yrwb ldpo pou?”

“Yrwtwbptwbmtlgpgsnbkuxwbyrl.ipoqblkbyrwdbuobyrwbxpsswn,”btwmsuwqbyrw
lsqbdpoa

“PoqbrlebdponbGls pou?”byrwbpmw-dpobpifwqa

“Gwyewwobywobpoqbwswxwobr.oqtwqa”

“Kuxwbylblow,”bd.td.twqbYptcpo,b“poqbnwybyrwnbptwbpktpuqbylbpyywdmybyl
wijpmwa”

“G.ybnl.bd.iybtwdwdgwt,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpo,b“yrpybyrwbGls poubptwbyrw
qlduopoybpoqbuoywssu woybtpjw—yrwblyrwtibptwbuoywsswjy.pssnbsuyysw
pglxwbyrwbgwpiyiblkbyrwbkltwiya”

“Nwybyrwnbptwbdwo,”bYptcpobtwduoqwqbruda

“Uobku .twblosn,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpoab“Yrwnbjpoolybgpoqbyl wyrwtbpibdwo
qlabYrwnbrpxwbolybpibnwybtwpjrwqbyrwbjldd.ouynbmspowblkbwxls.yuloabUybui
yt.wbyrpybkpdusuwibtwiuqwbuobpbiuo swbxussp w,bg.ybyrpybuqwp,byl wyrwt
euyrbyrwutbewpmloi,bepib uxwobylbyrwdbgnbyrwbGls poubyrpybyrwnbdu ryboly
gwbwoyutwsnbwhywtduopywqbgnbyrwbsuloibpoqbmpoyrwtiabKltdwtsn,bUbpdbylsq,
wpjrbuoquxuq.psb ldpo pou,berwobrwbgwjpdwblsqbwol. rbylbr.oybklt
rudiwsk,bjloiyt.jywqbpbr.ybpmptybktldblyrwtibpoqbyllfb.mbruibilsuyptn
sukw,byrwtwbgwuo bpybyrpybyudwbolbisu rywiybiwdgspojwblkbkpdusnbsukwa
YrwobyrwbGls poubyp. rybyrwdbrlebylbg.usqbmpsuipqwqbxussp wibpoq
jldmwsswqbyrwbdwobpoqbeldwobylbtwdpuobuobyrwdbpoqbtwptbyrwutbjrusqtwobyl
dpy.tuyn,bpkywtberujrbyrwbjrusqtwobewtwbtwz.utwqbylbtwdpuobuobyrw
xussp w,bilbyrpybolebildwblkbyrwbjldd.ouyuwibjpobjspudbpibdponbpibkltyn
ltbkukynbmwlmswabG.ybyrwbqwpyrbtpywbuibru rbpdlo byrwd,bpoqbyrwnbjpooly
d.syumsnbpibtpmuqsnbpibmwlmswbsuxuo b.oqwtboltdpsbjloquyuloiblkbmwpjw
poqbiwj.tuynabYrwbgt.ypsuyuwiblkbyrwbGls poubfussbdpon;byrwbjptouxltp
ypfwbpbjloiuqwtpgswbylssa”

“Kuxwbylblow,bpoqbiyussbyrwnbtwdpuobuobispxwtn—erpybjleptqibyrwnbd.iy
gw,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“Lobyrwbjloytptn,byrwnbptwbkptbktldbjleptqsn,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpoa
“Yrwnbeussbkpjwbpbsulobeuyrbyrwb.ydliybgtpxwtnabG.ybkltbilbdponbp wi
rpxwbyrwnbgwwobi.giwtxuwoybylbyrwbeussblkbyrwbGls pou,byrpybuybrpi
gwjldwbpbkuhwqbrpguybuobyrwd—pibyrwbkwptblkb lqbuibuorwtwoybuob.i,bil
uibyrwbkwptblkbyrwbGls poubuorwtwoybuobyrwbduoqiblkbyrwb ldpo poubktld
gutyra”

“Uybuibuoywtwiyuo ,”bipuqbYptcpoab“G.ybywssbdwboleberwtwbyrwbeldpobuiblk
erldbUbrpxwbjldwbuobiwptjra”

“Irwbuibnl.tbdpyw?”bpifwqbyrwblsqbdpoa

“Ol,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoab“Ubylsqbyrwb ldpo poubyrpybirwbepi,bilbyrpybyrwn
el.sqbmtlywjybrwtabIrwbuibSp,bz.wwoblkbLmpt,bRu rbMtuwiywiiblkbyrw
Kspduo b lqa”

Yrwblsqbdpobsllfwqbruibuojtwq.suynab“Udmliiugsw!”brwbjtuwqab“Uybjpooly
gwbyrpybyrwbz.wwoblkbLmptbrpibtuifwqbrwtbsukwbgnbjlduo bylbyrwbrldwblk
rwtbrwtwquyptnbwowduwia”

“Irwbepibkltjwqbylbuy,”btwmsuwqbYptcpo,b“rwtbsukwbgwuo byrtwpywowqbgnbp
mptyblkbrwtbmwlmswbgwjp.iwbirwbrpqbtwk.iwqbylbipjtukujwbdwbylbyrwut
 lqa”

“UkbyrwbGls poubfowebyruibyrwtwbel.sqbgwb twpybtwvlujuo ,”btwmsuwqbyrw
lsqbdpoa

“Ywssbdwberwtwbirwbui,”bqwdpoqwqbYptcpoab“Irwbmtwiwtxwqbdwbktldbrwt
mwlmsw,bpoqbUbd.iybipxwbrwtbktldberpywxwtbkpywbyrwbGls poubjloywdmspyw
kltbrwta”

“Uybuibrlmwswii,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpoab“Ubjpobywssbnl.berwtwbirwbui,bg.y
nl.bjpoolybtwij.wbrwta”

“Ubjpobytn,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“G.ybnl.beussbkpusbpoqbquwa”

“Ukberpybnl.bywssbdwbuibyt.w,byrpybyrwtwbuibpgils.ywsnbolbjrpojwblkbdn
wijpmuo bktldbyrwbxpsswn,bUbdu rybpibewssbquw,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoa
“Rlewxwt,bUbqlbolybp twwbeuyrbnl.a”

Yrwblsqbdpobirt.  wqab“Nl.bqlbolybfolebyrwbGls pou,”brwbipuqa

“Ywssbdwberwtwbyrwbeldpobui,”bipuqbYptcpoa

“Sllf,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpo,bdlyulouo bYptcpobylbklsslebrudbuoylbrui
pmptydwoy,bpoqbpmmtlpjruo bpbeuoqleberujrbkpjwqbyleptqbyrwbewiy,brw
mluoywqbyleptqibpbiytpo wbkspybylewtberujrbtliwbpglxwbyrwbtllkblkbyrw
dpuobg.usquo bowptbyrwbewiybwoqblkbyrwbmpspjwab“Irwbuibmtlgpgsn
ildwerwtwbuobyrwbuoywtultblkbyrpybylewt,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpobylbYptcpo,
“g.ybpibkptbpibnl.bptwbjlojwtowq,birwbdu rybpibewssbgwbpybyrwboltyr
mlswa”

Yptcpobiyllqbuobiuswojwbkltbpbdldwoy,bruibfwwobwnwibypfuo buobwxwtn
ipsuwoybqwypusblkbyrwbmtlimwjybgwkltwbrudabRwbipebyrwbiytpo w,
kspy-ylmmwqbylewt,berujrbuybiwwdwqbylbrudbdu rybgwbtwpjrwqbktldbyrwbtllk
lkbyrwbdpuobg.usquo abRwbipe,byll,bgtpojrwiblkbyrwbpojuwoybytwwibyrpy
ildwyudwibylmmwqbyrwbtllkbuyiwsk,bpoqbwhjwmybkltbyrwbqudbsu rybiruouo 
yrtl. rbildwblkbyrwbmpspjwbeuoqleibrwbipebolbiu oiblkbsukwabRwby.towq
i.qqwosnb.mlobyrwblsqbdpoa

“Ubqlbolybfolebnl.,”brwbipuq,b“g.ybUbgwsuwxwbyrpybUbdpnbyt.iybnl.,biuojw
pkywtbpssbgsllqbyuwibptwbiytlo ,bpoqbewbptwbyrwblosnbdwoblkbl.tbtpjwbuo
yruibxpsswnabNl.bdu ryb puobildwyruo buobkpxltbgnbgwytpnuo bdw,bg.ybU
jpoolybgwsuwxwbyrpybnl.beussbqlbuya”

“Qlbolybkwpt,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpo,b“UbrpywbyrwdabUkbUbjl.sqbrwsmbnl.bU
el.sq,bg.ybUbfolebyrpybyrwtwbuibolbrlmwblkbi.jjwiibkltberpywxwtbmspobnl.
dpnbrpxwbuobduoq—yrwbeldpobeussbowxwtbgwbtwij.wq;bnl.beussbowxwtbswpxw
yrwbXpsswnblkbyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqi—nl.beussbowxwtbswpxwbyrwbmpspjw
uyiwskb.oswiibyrwbGls poubeuirbuya”

Yrwbpmw-dpob tuoowqab“Nl.brpxwbgwwobrwtwbilbslo ,”brwbipuq,b“yrpybnl.
ptwbgw uoouo bylbpii.dwbyrwbpyyuy.qwblkbduoqbyrpybfwwmibyrwb ldpo poubuo
mwtmwy.psbispxwtnabUkbnl.bepoybylbwijpmw,bjldwbeuyrbdwabEwbdpnboly
i.jjwwq,bg.ybpybswpiybnl.beussbrpxwbpbgwyywtbjrpojwbukbnl.bytnbyrpobpi
ukbnl.btwdpuowqbkltwxwtbuobyruibylewta”

Yrwblsqbdpobirllfbruibrwpqab“Ol,”brwbipuq,b“uybuibrlmwswiiabUkbwijpmw
rpqbgwwobmliiugswbUbirl.sqbrpxwbgwwobpepnbktldbrwtwbslo bp la”

“ llq-gnwbyrwo,”bipuqbYptcpo,bpoqbieuo uo bl.yblkbyrwbeuoqlebrw
jspdgwtwqbyleptqbyrwbtllkbgwsle,bpslo byrwbiyl.ybiywdblkbyrwblsqbuxna

Yrwblsqbdpobepyjrwqbrudbkltbpbdldwoyb.oyusbrwbipebrudbdpfwbruibepn
jptwk.ssnbpjtliibyrwbtllkbyleptqbyrwbkspy-ylmmwqbylewtberwtwbrwbrlmwqbyl
kuoqbpoqbsugwtpywbSpabYrwobyrwblsqbkwssleby.towqbpoqbr.ttuwqbtpmuqsn
qleobyrwbjt.qwbiyputepnbyrpybtliwbspqqwt-sufwbylbyrwbjwoywtblkbyrw
ylewta

Yptcpobdpqwbruibepnbpjtliibyrwb.owxwobtllkblkbyrwbdpuobg.usquo ,
jspdgwtuo b.mbyrwbiuqwiblkbuyibru rwtbwswxpyuloibpoqbqtlmmuo bp puobyl
uyibslewtbswxwsibpibrwbjlxwtwqbpbjloiuqwtpgswbquiypojwbgwyewwobyrwbwpiy
ylewtbpoqbyrpybkspy-ylmmwqbiyt.jy.twblkbmwj.suptbqwiu obuoberujrbSpbepi
i.mmliwqbylbgwbuojptjwtpywqabRuibmtl twiibepibisle,bkltbrwbdlxwqbeuyr
yrwbjp.yuloblkbpbgwpiyblkbmtwn,biylmmuo blkywobuobqwoiwbirpqleibyl
suiywoa

Erwobpybspiybrwbtwpjrwqbyrwbylewt,brwbkl.oqbyrpybuybrpqbdponblmwouo i
swyyuo b.mlobyrwbtllk—lmwouo iberujrbewtwbjsliwqblosnbeuyrbrpo uo iblk
yrwbrwpxnbypmwiytuwqbiy.kkberujrbrwbrpqbiwwobuobyrwbylewtabQtpeuo blow
lkbyrwiwbisu rysnbpiuqwbrwbsllfwqbeuyruob.mlobpbspt wbjrpdgwt,bgptwblk
k.touiruo i,bktldbyrwbjwoywtblkberujrbyrwtwbmtlyt.qwqbyrtl. rbpbjutj.spt
pmwty.twbyrwbylmblkbpbiyputepnbiudusptbylbyrpybrwbrpqbpijwoqwqbuobyrw
wpiybylewtabYrwtwbepibolblowbuobiu rybeuyruobyrwbjrpdgwt,bpoqbYptcpo
jtliiwqbuddwqupywsnbylbyrwbiyputepnabMwwtuo bjp.yul.isnbuoylbyrwblmwouo 
Yptcpobipebyrpybyrwbiyputepnbqwijwoqwqbkltbpb twpybquiypojw,bmpiiuo 
dponbkslltiabRlebkptbuybewoybrwbjl.sqbolybv.q w,bwhjwmybuybiwwdwqbsufwsn
yrpybuybmuwtjwqbi.gywttpowpobjrpdgwtibgwowpyrbyrwbmpspjwabIl.oqiblkbsukw
jpdwb.mbylbrudbyrtl. rbyrwbirpky,bpoqblqlti,byll,bg.ybyrwbspyywtbspt wsn
o.ssukuwq,buobilbkptbpibyrwbijwoybudmtwiiuloiberujrbyrwnblkkwtwqbYptcpo
ewtwbjlojwtowq,bgnbyrwbrwpxnbuojwoiwberujrbmwtxpqwqbyrwbwoyutwbmpspjwa

Uybepibyruibmwtk.dwbyrpybepibylbmtlxwbyrwbpmw-dpo’ib.oqluo ,bklt
lyrwteuiwbruibfwwoboliytusibel.sqbrpxwbqwywjywqbyrwbijwoyblkbpbowpt-gn
 ldpo pouabYrwbkwsslebspnbgwruoqblowblkbyrwbrpo uo ibpybpobpmwty.twbuo
yrwbylewtbepssabRwbrpqbgwwobsnuo buobi.jrbpbmliuyulobyrpybrwbrpqbiwwo
Yptcpobwoywtbyrwbjrpdgwt,bpoqbrwbepibepyjruo brudbolebpibyrwbpmw-dpo
iyllqbsllfuo bqleobyrwbirpkyblkbyrwbiyputepnabYrwbwnwiblkbyrwbgspjfbrpq
pybkutiyb lowbeuqwbuobywttltbpybiu ryblkbyruibiytpo wbpmmptuyulo,byrw
sufwblkberujrbrwbrpqbowxwtbiwwobgwkltwabRpqbyrwbjtwpy.twbgwwoblk
i.kkujuwoybuoywssu wojwbylbrptgltbi.mwtiyuyulo,brwbel.sqbrpxwbyrl. ry
Yptcpobpb lqbqwijwoqwqbktldbpglxwabG.ybgwuo blkbyllbslebpobltqwtbyl
mliiwiibponbudp uopyuloberpyilwxwt,brwbdwtwsnbfowebyrpybrwbipebpbiytpo w
jtwpy.tw,bpoqbyrpybpssbiytpo wbjtwpy.twibd.iybgwbwowduwi,brwbepi
jloxuojwqabRuibq.ynbepibylbpmmtuiwbruibdpiywtiblkbyruibmtwiwojwbuobyrw
mpspjw,bg.ybrwbquqbolybqptwbylbdlxwb.oyusbyrwbpmmptuyulobrpqbtwpjrwqbp
i.kkujuwoybquiypojwbktldbrudbylbuoi.twbyrpybyrwbdlxwdwoyiblkbyrw
 ldpo poubel.sqbolybgwbolyujwqbgnbyrwbuoyt.qwt—rwbquqbolybjptwbylbjpss
pyywoyulobylbrudiwsk,bkltbrwbrpqbkl.oqbyrpybyrwbdltwblowbwkkpjwqblowiwsk
uobyrwbmtwiwojwblkbyrwbGls pou,byrwbswiiblowbepibsufwsnbylbi.kkwtabKltbp
slo byudwbyrwbiytpo wtbmwwtwqbqleobyrwbirpkyblkbyrwbiyputepn,bpoqbkltbp
slo byudwbyrwb ldpo poubspnbz.uwysnbepyjruo brudabG.ybpybspiybyrwbkltdwt
qwijwoqwqbyrwbiyputibpoqbmpiiwqbl.yblkbiu ryblkbyrwbepyjrwt,berl
uddwqupywsnbswpmwqbylbruibkwwybpoqbij.ttuwqbpepnbpjtliibyrwbtllkblkbyrw
mpspjwbyleptqbpbspt wbylewtbptuiuo bpybuyibewiywtobwoqa

PibYptcpobqwijwoqwqbyrwbspqqwtbyrwbk.dwiblkbyrwbuojwoiwbgwjpdwbdltwbpoq
dltwbpoolnuo abErwtwblyrwteuiwbrwbdu rybrpxwbuoxwiyu pywqbz.ujfsnbgn
ijwoybrwbepibolebjldmwsswqbylbsuiywobkltbwxwtnbil.oq,bpoqbuobdponbjpiwi
ylbuoxwiyu pywbyrwbjrpdgwtiblmwouo b.mlobyrwbjwoytpsbjlttuqltbgn
woywtuo byrwdabErwtwbyrwbqlltibewtwbsljfwq,brwbspnbkspybpoqbsuiywowq
jsliwbylbyrwbpmwty.twbpybyrwutbgpiwabLobiwxwtpsbljjpiuloibrwbtuifwq
jpssuo bSpbgnbopdw,bg.ybuobolbjpiwbquqbrwbtwjwuxwbponbtwmsna

Rwbrpqbuoxwiyu pywqbkl.tbspoquo ibpoqbepibqwijwoquo bylbyrwbkukyrberwo
rwbipebiypoquo buoblowblkbyrwbqlltepnib.mlobyruibswxwsbpobwxuqwoysnbd.jr
whjuywqbpoqbmliiugsnbywttukuwqbgspjfabYrwbkwsslebepiblkb upoy
mtlmltyuloibpoqbwoyutwsnb.optdwqabRwbiyllqbsllfuo bpybyrwbpmw-dpobeuyr
euqwbwnwibpibyrwbspyywtbv.dmwqbsu rysnbktldbyrwbiyputepnbpoqbiyllq
kpjuo brudb.mlobyrwbipdwbswxwsa

“Erpybqlbnl.bepoy?”bkuopssnbiypddwtwqbyrwbgspjfab“Ptwbnl.bsllfuo bklt
yrwberuywbirw,bnl.tbdpyw,berldbyrwbGls poubyllf?”

“Nwi,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoab“Erpybqlbnl.bfoleblkbrwt?”

“Ubfoleberwtwbirwbuibruqqwo,”btwmsuwqbyrwbgspjf,b“poqbukbnl.beussbklssle
dwbUbeussbswpqbnl.bylbrwta”

“Ernbqlbnl.blkkwtbylbqlbyruibkltbdw?”bpifwqbYptcpo,buddwqupywsn
i.imujul.iab“Ernbuibuybyrpybnl.bqlbolyb lbpyblojwbylbnl.tbdpiywtibpoq
ywssbyrwdbyrpybUbpdbrwtwbyrpybyrwnbdpnbiwoqbdwobylbjpmy.twbdw?”

“UbqlbolybfolebyrwbtwpilobyrpybUbepibiwoybylbywssbnl.byrui,”btwmsuwqbyrw
gspjfab“YrwbGls poubiwoybdwabUbquqbolybeuirbylbjldwbkltbUbepibpktpuqa”

“Erwtwbquqbyrwnbywssbnl.bylbswpqbdw?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Ubpdbylbswpqbnl.buoylbpbjrpdgwt,byrwbqlltblkberujrbeussbgwbuddwqupywsn
glsywqb.mlob.iabNl.beussbyrwobgwbpbmtuilowta”

“Poqbnl.?”buoz.utwqbYptcpoa

“U,byll,birpssbgwbpbmtuilowtbeuyrbnl.abYrwbGls poubqlbolybjptwberpy
gwjldwiblkbdwabMwtrpmibnl.beussbfussbdw,bg.ybyrwnbqlbolybjptwa”

“Ukbnl.bswpqbdwbuoylbpbytpmbUbirpssbfussbnl.,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoab“G.ybuk
nl.bswpqbdwbylbyrwbeldpobmwtrpmibewbirpssbpssbwijpmwabNl.bel.sqbsufwbyl
wijpmw,bel.sqbnl.boly?”

“Ubirl.sqbsufwbylbwijpmw,bg.ybUbjpoolya”

“Rpxwbnl.bwxwtbytuwq?”

“Ol,bUbrpxwbolyabErnbirl.sqbUbytnbylbqlbildwyruo byrpybjpoolybgwbqlow?”

“Ukbnl.bswpqbdwbuoylbyrwbytpmbUbirpssbi.twsnbfussbnl.abUkbnl.bswpqbdwbyl
yrwbeldpo,bnl.bpybswpiybrpxwbyrwbjrpojwbyrpybUbqlbylbsuxwabErujrbeuss
nl.bql?”

Yrwbgspjfbijtpyjrwqbruibrwpqbuobyrl. ry,byrwbuqwpbislesnbkusywtuo 
yrtl. rbruibiy.muqbduoqabPybspiybrwbimlfwa

“Nl.bptwbxwtnbeuiw,”brwbipuqab“Ubeussbswpqbnl.bylbyrwbeldpoa”

“ lbprwpq,byrwo,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“poqbUbeussbklsslebnl.a”

Yrwbgspjfbqwijwoqwqbylbyrwbowhybswxwsbpoqblmwouo byrwbqlltbwoywtwqbp
slo ,biytpu rybjlttuqltabPibyrwbpmw-dpobklsslewqbruib .uqwbrwbrpq
swui.twbylbtwkswjyb.mlobyrwbdwpoibyrtl. rberujrbyrwbGls poubrpqbswptowq
lkbruibmtwiwojwbuobyrwbylewt,bpoqbyrwblosnbjlojs.iulobrwbjl.sqbpttuxwbpy
epibyrpybyrwblsqbdpobrpqbgwytpnwqbrud,biuojwbuobilbkptbpibYptcpobepi
peptwbrwbpslowbfowebyrpybyrwbpmw-dpobepibuobyrwbmpspjwabYrwbjlttuqlt
pslo berujrbyrwbgspjfbepibswpquo brudbepibxwtnbqptf,btwjwuxuo bpbqudbpoq
uopqwz.pywbuss.duopyulobktldbyrwbqudsnbsu rywqbjlttuqltbyrwnbrpqbv.iy
swky,byrwbqlltbuoylberujrbtwdpuowqblmwobgwruoqbyrwdabMtwiwoysnbyrwbgspjf
iylmmwq,bgwkltwbpbjsliwqbqllta

“Yrwbeldpobuibuobyrwtw,”bipuqbyrwbgspjf,bmluoyuo bylbyrwbqllta

“Irwbuibpslow?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Ol,”btwmsuwqbyrwbgspjfab“Sllf,”bpoqbrwblmwowqbyrwbqllt,btwxwpsuo bp
rwpxnbrpo uo ,berujrbrwb woysnbiwmptpywq,btwxwpsuo bylbYptcpobyrw
uoywtultblkbyrwbjrpdgwtbgwnloqa

Iwucuo byrwbgspjfbgnbyrwbetuiy,byrpybrwbdu rybolybwijpmw,bYptcpobiywmmwq
klteptqbpoqbm.ybruibwnwibylbyrwbpmwty.twabGwkltwbrudbspnbpbspt w
jrpdgwt,bpyblowbwoqblkberujrbepibpbtpuiwqbqpui,byrwbgpiwblkberujrbepiblk
pbqptf,bltopywsnbjptxwqbellqabYrwbjwoytpsbku .twb.mlobyruibqpuibepibp
r. w,bgspjf-dpowqbsulo—yrwbipdwbyrpybYptcpobrpqbiwwobwijltywqbyrtl. r
yrwb ptqwoiblkbyrwbmpspjwabRuib lsqwobjrpuoibewtwbolebkpiywowqbylbtuo i
uobyrwbksllt,beruswbyrwbkl.tbgspjfibiyllqbuobiypy.wiz.wbtu uquyn,byel
.mlobwuyrwtbiuqwblkbyrwbgwpiyab.mlob lsqwobyrtlowibgwruoqbyrwbsulobipy
yrtwwbdp oukujwoysnbltopdwoywqbGls pouabPybyrwbkllyblkbyrwbiywmibswpquo 
ylbyrwbiyputbiyllqbSp,bgwyewwobyelb ldpo poub .ptqiab.mlobwuyrwtbiuqwblk
pbjwoytpsbpuiswbewtwbjptxwqbgwojrwibkpjuo byrwbqpui,bpoqbljj.mnuo byrw
ktloybiwjyuloblkbyrwiwbewtwbildwbkukynbGls pou,bpdlo berldbYptcpobpsdliy
uddwqupywsnbwimuwqbyrwbsuyysw,blsqbdpobyrpybrwbrpqbdwybuobyrwbylewt,byrw
iu ryblkberldbuoiypoysnbjtniypssucwqbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibjloxujyuloblkbyrw
il.tjwblkbruibgwytpnpsa

Yrwbjrpdgwtbepibsu rywqbgnbr.oqtwqiblkbjtwiiwyi,bg.touo bpbi.giypojw
erujrb pxwbkltyrbglyrbsu rybpoqbyrwbrwpxnbuojwoiwbyrpybrpqbpiipuswq
Yptcpo’iboliytusibiuojwbkutiybrwbwoywtwqbyrwbqldpuoblkbyrwbGls pouabYrw
slo ,bjpyrwqtpswiz.wbeuoqleib.mloblowbiuqwblkbyrwbpmptydwoybewtwbyrtleo
euqw,bpqduyyuo byrwbilkybputblkbyrwbv.o swbi.ddwtbou ryabYrtl. rbyrwd
Yptcpobjl.sqbiwwbyrwbmpspjwb tl.oqibpoqbyrpybyruibjrpdgwtbepib.mlobyrw
ipdwbswxwsbpibyrwbywttpjwb.mloberujrbyrwbmpspjwbiyllqabGwnloqbyrliw
euoqleibepibpoblmwob pyw-epnbylbyrwbv.o swbpoqbktwwqld,bg.ybuoywtmliwq
gwyewwobrudbpoqbyrwbeuoqleibewtwbkukynbptdwqb ltussp-dwoabMwtrpmi,byrwo,
iytpyw nbel.sqbgwbpbgwyywtbewpmlobyrpobkltjwbeuyrberujrbylbjptxwbruibepn
ylbktwwqldbeuyrbSpabNwybylbyrwbkltwktloyblkbruibduoqbepibwxuqwoysnbp
gwsuwkbuobyrwbmtlgpgusuynbyrpybuobyrwbwoqbuybel.sqbgwbkltjwbtpyrwtbyrpo
iytpyw nb.mloberujrbrwbd.iybqwmwoqabRwby.towqbylbyrwbgspjfbpybruibiuqwa

“El.sqbyrwb ldpo poub .ptquo byrwbsulobsufwbylbwijpmwbktldbyrwbGls pou?”
rwbpifwqa

“Yrwb ldpo poubel.sqbpssbwijpmwbukbyrwnbjl.sq,”btwmsuwqbyrwbgspjfa

“Ukbuybuibowjwiiptnbkltbdwbylbwoywtbyrwbtlld,byrwo,”bipuqbYptcpobylbyrw
gspjf,b“eussbnl.bpjjldmponbdwbpoqbywssbyrwblyrwtb ldpo poubyrpybukbyrwn
eussbku rybkltbdwbUbeussbypfwbyrwdbl.yblkbyrwbxpsswn?”

“Ubeussbywssbyrwd,bg.ybyrwnbeussbolybgwsuwxw,”btwmsuwqbyrwbgspjfa

“Ywssbyrwdbyrpybyrwnbeussbquwbukbyrwnbqlbolybrwsmbdw,byrwo,”bipuq
Yptcpoa

“Ubeussbywssbyrwda”

PibYptcpoby.towqbruibpyywoyulobp puobylbyrwbjrpdgwtbgwkltwbrudbrwbipe
yrpybyrwbGls poubljj.mnuo byrwbjwoytpsb lsqwobyrtlowbepibimwpfuo a

“OlgswiblkbO.dp,bFuo blkbGwpiyi,bWdmwtltblkbPssbJtwpywqbYruo i,”brwbipuq
uobqwwm,b tlesuo bylowi,b“O.dpbrpibrwptqbyrwbeltqibyrpybyruibirwbrpi
imlfwo,bpoqbuybuibyrwbeussblkbO.dpbyrpybirwbquwabYrwb twpybWdmwtltbui
r.o tnabRw,brudiwsk,beussbqwxl.tbrwtbrwtwbuobyrwbmtwiwojwblkbruibOlgswi
poqbyrwbUdmwtupsbJl.ojusblkbYrtwwabUybuibyrwbeussblkbO.dpa”

Pb tlesblkbpmmtlxpsbptliwbktldbyrwbgwpiy-sufwbp.quwojw,beruswbyrwb twpy
sulobgptwqbruibruqwl.ibkpo ibpoqbtlptwqb.oyusbyrwbmpspjwbytwdgswq,brui
eujfwq,bnwssle- twwobwnwibkuhwqbywttugsnb.mlobyrwbeldpobgwkltwbrud,
wxuqwojuo byrwbkpjybyrpybyrwiwbjwtwdlouwibewtwblkbi.kkujuwoybktwz.wojn
ylbrpxwbpjj.iyldwqbyrwbsulobylberpybrwbdu rybwhmwjybpibyrwbsl ujps
ywtduopyuloblkbyrwda

“Qpnbpkywtbyldlttle,”bjloyuo.wqbyrwbimwpfwt,b“yrwbdpywblkbyruibjtwpy.tw,
erlbuibgnbyruibyudwbipkwsnbudmtuilowqbuobyrwbYlewtblkbyrwbWdmwtlti,beuss
gwbgtl. rybgwkltwbO.dpbkltbv.q dwoyabIspxwi,”brwbjtuwqbi.qqwosnbuobp
sl.qbxlujw,btuiuo bylbruibkwwybpoqb sptuo bpybyrwb .ptqibrlsquo bSp,
“qtp byrwbeldpobylbnl.tbwdmwtlta”

Uoiypoysnbyrwbsulobgwjpdwbktpoyuj,bspiruo buyibypusbpoqbiytpuouo bpybuyi
iyl.ybjrpuoi,btlptuo bpoqbioptsuo bpibuybtwptwqb.mlobuyibruoqbkwwybpoq
il. rybylbswpmb.mlobSp,berlbepibolebgwuo bkltjugsnbjloq.jywqb.mbyrw
iywmiblkbyrwbqpuibyleptqbyrwbgwvwewswqbdpo-wpywtbilbudmpyuwoysnbpepuyuo 
rwta

Irwbquqbolybjtnbl.ybuobywttlt,bg.ybirwbil. rybylbyeuiybrwtiwskbktwwbktld
yrwbqwypuouo brpoqiblkbyrwbmlewtk.sb ldpo pou—pssbk.yuswsn,brlewxwta

Yrwnbrpqbtwpjrwqbyrwbspiybiywm,bpoqbewtwbpgl.ybylbm.irbSpbuoylbyrwbjspei
lkbyrwbsulo,berwobyrwnbewtwbpttwiywqbgnbpbsl.qbjtnbktldblowbiuqwblkbyrw
jrpdgwt—pbjtnbyrpybrpsywqbyrwb ldpo poubpoqbgtl. rybyrwbpiiwdgswq
Gls poubylbyrwutbkwwybuobpiylouirdwoybpoqbpo wt,bkltbyrwbiu rybyrpybdwy
yrwutbwnwibepibewssbz.psukuwqbylbptl.iwbyrwbspyywtbeuyruobyrwdabSwpmuo 
uoylbyrwbtlldbeuyrbtpuiwqbimwptbepibyrwbpsdliybopfwqberuywbdpoblkberld
yrwnbrpqbrwptq,bg.yberldbolowblkbyrwdbrpqbpibnwybiwwoabPoqbilbz.ujfbepi
rwbyrpybuobyrwbxwtnbuoiypoyblkbwoytn—wxwobgwkltwbyrwnbjl.sqbtuiwbyl
yrwutbkwwy—rwbrpqbsp.ojrwqbruibimwpta




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHUX
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbJRPDGWTbLKbRLTTLTI


PbGSPJF-DPOWQbsulobdlxwqbyrtl. rbyrwbv.o swbou ryabEuyrbdpvwiyuj
.ojlojwtobkltbpssblyrwtbjtwpywqbyruo ibrwbyllfbruibsltqsnbepnbyrtl. r
yrwbmtudwxpsbkltwiyabRwbepibolybr.oyuo ,bkltbrwbdpqwbolbwkkltyibyleptq
iywpsyr,bolt,blobyrwblyrwtbrpoq,bquqbrwb.yywtbponbxljpsbil.oqabRwbdlxwq
ieukysn,byrl. rbildwyudwibiylmmuo beuyrb.msukywqboliwbylbijwoybyrwbput
poqbylbsuiywoabPoqbyr.ibpybspiybrwbjpdwbylbpbru rbepss,bpslo byrwbkpjw
lkberujrbrwbioukkwq,b.oyusbyrwbepssbepibgtlfwobgnbpbrpsk-lmwowqb pywepn,
yrtl. rberujrbrwbmpiiwqbuoylbyrwbwojsli.twa

Gwkltwbrudbslldwqbpb twpybg.usquo ,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbpibrwbiyllqbepyjruo 
uybpoqbsuiywouo ,byrwtwbgtlfwbktldbyrwbuoywtultbyrwbyr.oqwtl.ibtlptblk
pobpo tnbsuloa

Rwblkbyrwbgspjfbdpowbjljfwqbruibrwpqb.mloblowbiuqwbpoqbdlxwqbiywpsyrusn
klteptqa

PybyrwbxwtnbuoiypoybyrpybSpbepibpgl.ybylbgwbyrt.iybuoylbyrwbjs.yjrwiblk
O.dp,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibswpmwqbuoylbyrwbpmptydwoybeuyrbpbsl.qbjtnbyrpy
gtl. rybylbdldwoyptnbmp.iwbyrwb ldpo poubyrpybewtwbqtp  uo brwtbylbrwt
qlld,bpoqbuobyrpybgtuwkbuoiypoyblkbtwimuywberujrbyrwbpmw-dpobfowebel.sq
klsslebruibuoywtt.myulobyrwbieukybimwptbepibsp.ojrwqabYlbyrwbtp wbpoq
jloiywtopyuloblkbyrwbGls poubyrwnbipebuybg.tnbuyiwskbuobyrwbrwptyblk
yrwutbWdmwtlt—yrwb twpy,bgspjf-dpowqbsuloa

PybYptcpo’ibiuqwbiyllqbyrwb ldpo pouberldbrwbrpqbywttukuwqbuoylbiwtxujw,
poqbpibYptcpobt.irwqbklteptqbyleptqbSpbyrwbgspjfbpjjldmpouwqbrud,bjtnuo 
ylbruibkwssleibyrpybukbyrwnbel.sqbrwsmbyruibiytpo wtbyrwnbdu rybgwbktww
poqbwijpmwbktldbyrwbGls poubkltwxwta

“Nl.brpxwbmwtduyywqbyrwb twpybWdmwtltbylbgwbispuo,”brwbjtuwqbylbyrwbmllt
 ldpo pouberlb .ptqwqbO.dpab“KltbyruibyrwbGls poubeussbfussbnl.abRwsmbyl
ipxwbyrwbiytpo wbYptdpo poubpoqbruibdpywbpoqbnl.brpxwbpybswpiybpbjrpojw
kltbsukwbpoqbktwwqldabPoqbnl.,”brwbpqqwq,bpqqtwiiuo byrwbyelberlbrpq
gwwob .ptquo bSp,b“yrwnbeussbrlsqbnl.btwimloiugswbpsil—nl.tblosnbrlmw
suwibeuyrb.ia”

YptcpobrpqbtwpjrwqbSp’ibiuqwbpoqbepibqtp  uo brwtb.mbyrwbiywmiblkbyrw
qpuiberwtwbrwbrlmwqbyrpybrwbdu rybdpfwbpbdldwoyptnbiypoqbp puoiybyrw
kukynbGls pouberlbewtwbolebt.iruo bklteptqbktldbyrwutbiwpyibyleptqbruda

“Ispnbyrwbyrtwwberlbiuyb.mlobyrwbqpui,”bjtuwqbYptcpobylbyrwb ldpo pou,
erlbewtwbolebwxuqwoysnbrwiuypyuo bpibylberujrbiuqwbyrwnbel.sqbjpiybyrwut
slybeuyrab“Ispnbyrwdbukbnl.beuirbnl.tbktwwqld!bIspnbyrwdbukbnl.beuirbyl
suxw!”

Yrwbp.yrltuypyuxwbylowiblkbruibxlujw,byrwbdp owyujbpmmwpsblkbrui
mwtilopsuyn,bruibopy.tpsbswpqwtirumbelobyrwdbylbrudbkltbyrwbgtuwk
uoiypoybyrpybepibowjwiiptnbylby.tobyrwdb.mlobyrwbrpywqbp.yrltuynbyrpy
yrwbyrtwwbGls poub.mlobyrwbqpuibtwmtwiwoywq,bpoqbpibyrwnbqtlxwbyrwut
imwptibuoylbyrwbirp  nbgspjfbglquwiblkbyrwutbdpiywtibyrwnbgwjpdwbyrwo
poqbkltwxwtbyrwbjtwpy.twiblkbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bkltbyrwtwbjl.sqbgwbol
k.y.twbrlmwbkltbyrwdbuobyrwbspoqblkbyrwbGls poua

Euyrblowbptdbptl.oqbSp’ibepuiybyrwbpmw-dpobjpttuwqbrwtbylbyrwbi.dduyblk
yrwbqpui,berwtwbrwbiwucwqbruibimwptbpoqbqtwebuybktldbyrwbglqnblkbyrw
qwpqbsuloabYrwo,by.touo bpgl.y,bpoqbkpjuo byrwbpqxpojuo bGls pou,brw
mspjwqblowbkllyb.mlobyrwbjptjpiiblkbruibfussbpoqbtpuiwqbruibxlujwbuobyrw
ywttuknuo bxujyltnbjtnblkbyrwbpmwiblkbFwtjrpfa

GwkltwbrudbyrwbGls poubmp.iwq,bgwruoqbrudbyrwb ldpo poubz.puswqbuo
ywttlta

“Iylm!”bjtuwqbYptcpo,btpuiuo bpbmpsdbyleptqbyrwbGls pouab“Suiywo!bUbpd
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabUbil. rybolbz.pttwsbeuyrbnl.tbmwlmswabUbg.ybsllfbklt
pbmpiip wbyrtl. rbnl.tbjl.oytnbylbdnbleoabSwybdwb lbdnbepnbuobmwpjwbeuyr
yruibeldpo,bypfuo byrwiwb ldpo poubeuyrbdwa”

Kltbpoiewtbpbjrlt.iblkbipxp wb tlesibptliwbktldbyrwbGls poubpibyrwn
iyptywqbklteptqbp puobyleptqbyrwbqpuiabKtldbyrwutbtpofibyrwtwbi.qqwosn
swpmwqbyrwblsqbdpoblkbyrwbwpiybylewt,berlbtpobieukysnbyleptqbYptcpoa

“Pr,bytpuylt,”bjtuwqbyrwbpmw-dpo,b“nl.bel.sqbgwbyrwbkutiy,byrwo,byl
ypiywbyrwbetpyrblkbYptcpo?”bRwbimlfwbuobWo suirbpoqbyrwblsqbdpobtwmsuwq
ussbyrwbipdwbylo .wa

“Ytpuylt?”brwbwhjspudwqbuobi.tmtuiwa

“Nwi,bytpuylt,”byr.oqwtwqbYptcpoab“Quqbnl.bolybr.ttnbrwtwbylbywssbyrw
Gls poubyrpybUbepibuobyrwbmpspjw,byrpybyrwnbdu rybiwoqbyrwb ldpo poubyl
s.twbdwbylbpbytpm?”

“Ubquqbolyruo blkbyrwbfuoq,”btwmsuwqbyrwblyrwtab“Ubjpdwbrwtwbylbmspjw
dniwskbowptbyrwberuywbeldpo,beuyrbyrwbyrl. rybyrpybUbdu rybgwblkbiwtxujw
ylbrwtbltbnl.bukbUbewtwbowwqwqabUbjldwbole,bWo suirdpo,bylbiypoqbpybnl.t
iuqwbpoqbquwbpybnl.tbiuqw,bkltbquwbnl.birpss,bpibi.twbpibyrwtwbuibpb lq
uobrwpxwoabOlyruo bjpobipxwbnl.bolebktldbyrwbetpyrblkbyrwbGls pouberliw
Wdmwtltbnl.brpxwbfusswqa”

“Jldw,byrwo,”bjtuwqbYptcpo,b“poqbmtlxwbnl.tbslnpsynabUybewtwbgwyywtbyl
quwbolebyrpobylbsuxwbuobispxwtnbkltwxwta”

Yrwbiuhb ldpo poubrpqbtpo wqbyrwdiwsxwi,byrtwwb.mlobwuyrwtbiuqwblk
YptcpobpoqbSp,beruswbyrwbiwxwoyr,berlbrpqbwoywtwqbyrwbjrpdgwtbeuyr
Yptcpob.optdwq,bepibypfuo bewpmloibktldbyrwbglqnblkblowblkbyrwbyrtww
Gls pouberlbrpqbgwwobispuob.mlobyrwbqpuia

Gwkltwbyruibpttpnblkbkltjwbilbowebylbyrwd,byrwbGls poubmp.iwqbpybyrw
kllyblkbyrwbiywmibswpquo bylbyrwbqpuiabG.yblosnbkltbpbdldwoybyrwn
mp.iwq,bkltbyrwtwbewtwbg.ybouowbp puoiybkukyn,bpoqbpibyrwnbi.t wqb.mbyrw
iywmi,bYptcpobpoqbruib ldpo poubdwybyrwdbeuyrbgpyysw-ph,bpoqbimwpt,bpoq
gs.q wloabKltbpbdldwoybyrwnbmtwiiwqbyrwdbgpjf,bg.ybyrwbo.dgwtibp puoiy
yrwdbewtwbyllb twpy,bpoqblojwbp puobpbepxwbiewmyb.mbyrpybiwwdwqbsufwsn
ylblxwterwsdbyrwd,berwobyrwtwbgtlfwb.mlobyrwbwptiblkbyrwbjloywiypoyibp
ktu ryk.sbtlpt,berujr,bjlduo bktldbpsdliybpybyrwutbiuqwi,bgtl. rybp
i.qqwo,bdldwoyptnbjwiipyuloblkbyrwbgpyyswa

Y.touo byrwutbwnwibuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbil.oqbyrwnbipebpbr. w,
gspjf-dpowqbsulobiypoquo b.mlobyrwbkslltblkbyrwbpmptydwoy,bv.iybeuyruo
lowblkbyrwbeuoqleiabKltbpobuoiypoybrwbiyllqbsufwbpbiypy.wblkb lsqwo
gtlocw,bpoqbyrwobp puobyrwbg.usquo bytwdgswqbylbyrwbtwxwtgwtpyuloiblk
ruibdu rynbtlpta

Ylewtuo bpglxwbyrwdbpssbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibsllfwqbqleobktldbyrwbqpui
.mlobyrwb twpybgwpiybgwslebrud,bpoqbyrwobuobz.ujfbwspyulobrwbtpuiwqbrui
xlujwbpglxwbyrwb tlesuo iblkbyrwbGls poua

“Vpq-gps-vp,”brwbjtuwq,bpoqbmluoyuo byleptqbyrwbGls pou,b“Fuss!bFuss!”

Ijptjwsnbrpqbyrwbeltqibgwwob.yywtwqbwtwbyrwbr. wbdloiywt,bpbxwtuypgsw
qwxusbuojptopyw,bepib.mlobyrwbrputnb ltussp-dwoabPoqbiud.sypowl.isn
yrwtwbljj.ttwqbylbyrwbduoqblkbyrwbpmw-dpobpbqptuo bmspoblkbipsxpyulobklt
rudiwskbpoqbyrwblyrwtiberlbewtwbqwmwoqwoyb.mlobruda

“Z.ujf,”brwbjtuwqbylbyrwb ldpo pou,b“kpssb.mlobyrwbGls pouabRwtwbpybspiy
uibyrwbyt.wbO.dp,bFuo blkbGwpiyi,bpoqbt.swtblkbpssbjtwpyuloabRwbispni
ruibwowduwibg.ybrwbeussbmtlywjybYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibpoqbyrwb ldpo pou,
erlbptwbruibktuwoqia”

Iwwuo byrwutbrpywqbdpiywtibkpssuo bgpjfbgwkltwbyrwbywttukujbloisp. ryi
lkbyrwbsulo,byrwb ldpo poubt.irwqbuobeuyrbgpyysw-phwibpoqbjs.gi,berusw
Yptcpo,bjpiyuo bpiuqwbruibimwpt,byllfbruibmspjwbpdlo byrwdbeuyrbqtpeo
foukw,bpoq,bfwwmuo bjsliwbylbVpq-gps-vp,bqutwjywqbyrwbsulobktldblow
xujyudbylbpolyrwt,bswiybrwbkpssbgnbduiypfwb.mlobyrwb ldpo poubltbyrw
suyysw,blsq,beruywbdpo,bltbwxwobSp,brwtiwskabYewoynblkbyrwbGls poubspn
qwpqb.mlobyrwbkslltbgwkltwbyrwbgpspojwbdpop wqbylbwijpmwbktldbyrw
jrpdgwt,bpoqbyrwobYptcpo,by.touo bylbVpq-gps-vp,bjpsswqbrudbylbrwwsa

“ l!”brwbipuq,by.touo byleptqbyrwb ldpo pou,b“poqbqtp byrwbglqnblkbyrw
kpsiwbO.dpbktldbyrwbqpuiabTwdlxwbuybktldbyrwbtlld,bkltbyrwbyt.wbWdmwtlt
rpibjldwbylbjspudbruibyrtlowa”

YrwblsqbdpobpoqbSpbewtwbwnwuo bYptcpobpoqbyrwbsulobuobpdpcwdwoya

“Erlbptwbnl.,”bpifwqbyrwbkltdwt,b“yrpybnl.bjpobeltfbi.jrbdutpjswibeuyrbp
ipxp wbgwpiyblkbyrwbv.o sw?bErlbptwbnl.,bpoqberpybqlbnl.buoywoqbylbql?”

“Epuybpoqbiww,”bipuqbYptcpobeuyrbpb tudbiduswab“Ubyruofbyrpybewbirpss
pssbgwbipkwbole,bpoqbyrpybyrwb ldpo poubdpnbsuxwbuobjldkltybkltbpbslo 
yudwbrwtwpkywta”

Erwobyrwbgspjfibrpqbtwdlxwqbyrwbjptjpiiblkbyrwbsulobktldbyrwbqpuibpoq
yrtleobuybktldblowblkbyrwbeuoqleiblkbyrwbjrpdgwt,bYptcpobiwoybVpq-gps-vp
ylbiuybuobyrwbmspjwb.mlobyrwbqpuibyrpybrpqbkltdwtsnbgwwobljj.muwqbgnbyrw
sulo,bO.dpa

“Yrwtw,”brwbipuq,by.touo bylbyrwb ldpo pou,b“nl.biwwbyrwbyt.wbWdmwtlt,
erlbqlwibolybrpxwbylbgwbjrpuowqbylbruibyrtlowabYrtwwblkbnl.beussb lbyl
yrwbr.yiblkbnl.tbmwlmswbgwruoqbyrwbmpspjwbpoqbi.ddlobyrwdbylbyrwbyrtlow
tlld,byrpybyrwn,byll,bdpnbiwwberpybrpibytpoimutwqabR.ttn,byrpybewbdpn
rpxwbdponbepttultibrwtwbgwkltwbyrwbGls poubtwy.tobuobkltjwa”

Kusswqbeuyrbpobwhjuywdwoyberujrbpsdliybirllfbyrwutbq.ssbduoqibuoylbp
iwdgspojwblkbuoywssu wojwbyrtwwblkbyrwb ldpo poubrpiywowqbylbqlbYptcpo’i
guqquo ,beruswbyrwblyrwtibiyllqb pcuo bpybYptcpobeuyrbwhmtwiiuloiblk
i.jrbpewbyrpybdu ryblosnbgwbwo woqwtwqbgnbyrwbiu ryblkbqwuynabSpbjpdw
yrwobpoqbiyllqbgwiuqwbYptcpo,bsllfuo b.mbuoylbruibkpjwbeuyrbwnwibyrpy
twkswjywqbpbtwxwtwojwbk.ssnbpibqwwmbpibyrpybrwsqbgnbyrwbgspjfia

“Ubrpxwbolybyrpofwqbnl.,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”birwbipuq,b“kltberpybnl.
rpxwbtuifwqbpoqbqlowbkltbdwabUbfolebyrpybnl.bd.iybrpxwbjldwbrwtwbuo
iwptjrblkbdw,bylbipxwbdwbktldbyrwiwbjtwpy.twi,bpoqbUbfolebyrpybuybepi
olybslxwbyrpybudmwsswqbnl.bylbyruibrwtlujbpoqbewss-ou rbrlmwswiibpjya
Yrpybnl.brpxwbi.jjwwqwqbyr.ibkptbuibsuyyswbirltyblkbdutpj.sl.i,bg.ybU,
uobyrwbsw woqiblkberliwbmwlmswbptwbtwjl.oywqbyrwbwhmsluyiblkbyrw
Gls pou,bfolebyrpybyrwtwbjpobgwbolbrlmwblkbwxwoy.psbwijpmwbkltb.ibpss,
poqbilbUbgwiwwjrbyrpybnl.b lbpyblojwbpoqbdpfwb llqbnl.tbwijpmwbpslow,buk
mliiugsw,bkltbnl.bpslowblkb.ibrpxwbponbmliiugswbjrpojwblkbwijpmwa”

“Ubqlbolybp twwbeuyrbnl.byrpybewbrpxwbolbjrpojwbylbwijpmw,bSp,”btwmsuwq
yrwbpmw-dpoab“Uybiwwdibylbdwbyrpybolebewbolyblosnbrpxwbwxwtnbtwpilobyl
gwsuwxwbyrpybewbptwbmtpjyujpssnbpii.twqblkbwijpmw,bg.ybyrpybewbdpn
uoi.twbpsilbylbyrwiwbmlltb ldpo poubktwwqldbktldbispxwtnbpoqbktldbyrw
yntpoonblkbyrwbGls pouabG.ybyruibuibolybpssabEuyrbyruibUbirpssbolybgw
ipyuikuwqabOlyblosnbd.iybyrwiwbmwlmswberlbirlebolbrlimuypsuynbyl
iytpo wtibgwbm.ouirwq,bg.ybnl.tbleobquislnpsbmtuwiyibpibewssabYlbyrui
spyywtbwoqbUbuoywoqbylbdptjrbl.yblkbyrwbXpsswnblkbyrwbMpspjwblk
Qupdloqi,bqleob.mlobyrwbjuynblkbLmptbeuyrbpbkltjwblkb ldpo pou
i.kkujuwoybylbjldmwsbJpqvbylbtwsuoz.uirbyrwbmlewtbrwbrpib.i.tmwqbpoq
twmspjwbnl.b.mlobyrwbyrtlowblkbLmptabOlyruo bswiibyrpobyruibirpss
ipyuiknbdw,bpoqbolyruo bswiibyrpobyruibirpssbUbpjjldmsuirbgwkltwbU
swpxwa”

“Nl.bptwbpbgtpxwbdpo,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpo,b“poqbnl.brpxwbi.jjwwqwqbgwnloq
erpybUbyrl. rybjl.sqbgwbmliiugsw,bg.ybSpbuibtu ry,bnl.bqlbolybfolebyrw
kwtljuynbltbyrwbtwil.tjwiblkbyrwbGls pou,bltbyrwbmlewtberujrbyrwnbeuwsq
lxwtbyrwb ldpo pouabJl.sqbnl.btpuiwbktldbyrwbiy.muqbduoqiblkbyrwbgspjfi
yrwbuoj.g.iblkbkwptbyrpybtwiyibilbrwpxusnb.mlobyrwdbnl.bdu rybeuoblxwtbp
i.kkujuwoybo.dgwtbylbdpfwb llqbnl.tbwijpmwbktldbyrwbxpsswn,bg.ybyrpy,bU
kwpt,buibgwnloqbwxwobnl.abL.tblosnbrlmw,byrwtwkltw,buibylbwijpmwbktld
yrwbmpspjwberuswbyrwnbptwbdldwoyptusnbquilt poucwq,bpoqbyt.iybyl
kswwyowiibpoqbylbs.jfbylbjpttnb.ibgwnloqbyrwbsuduyiblkbyrwbxpsswnbgwkltw
ewbptwbpmmtwrwoqwqa”

“Iww,”bjtuwqbSp,bmluoyuo ;b“wxwobolebuybuibyllbspyw—yrwnbtwy.toa”

Yptcpobsllfwqbuobyrwbqutwjyulobyrpybirwbuoqujpywqbpoqbipebyrtl. rbyrw
lmwobqlltepnbpybyrwbkptbwoqblkbyrwbjrpdgwtbpbspt wbo.dgwtblkb ltussp-dwo
pmmtlpjruo abRuibwnwibdlxwqbieukysnbylbyrwbeuoqleibuobyrwblyrwtbepssa
“G.ybepuy,”brwbipuq,b“gwrlsqbpolyrwtbkpjyltbuobyrwbwz.pyulo!”

Yrwblyrwtibsllfwqbyleptqbyrwbeuoqleiberujrblmwowqb.mlobyrwbywttpjw,bpoq
yrwnbipebgwnloqbyrwdberpybpmmwptwqbylbgwbpbjtleqblkbiwxwtpsbr.oqtwq
gspjfibt.oouo btpmuqsnbyleptqbyrwbeuoqleiabYrwblyrwtbgspjfib.mlobyrw
qpuibjtuwqbl.ybwhjuywqsn:b“Yrwnbjldw!bYrwnbjldw!bEwbirpssbgwbktww,bpoq
olbslo wtbirpssbyrwbGls poubgwbpgswbylbdpfwb.ibeltfb.oyusbewbqtlmbktld
whrp.iyulo,bltbgwpyb.i,bltbylty.twb.i,bltbkwwqb.ibylbO.dpa”

PibyrwbkutiyblkbyrwbGls poubtwpjrwqbyrwbqlltepnbswpquo buoylbyrw
jrpdgwt,byrwb ldpo poubjlddwojwqbylbml.tbyrtl. rbyrwbiwxwtpsbeuoqleibuo
yrwblmmliuywbepssabYrwnbewtwbswqbgnbyrwbyrtwwberlbrpqbgwwobiwoybylbkwyjr
yrwd,bpoqbylbi.jrb llqbwkkwjybrpqbyrwiwbjpttuwqbyrwutbdwiip wbyrpybyrw
gspjfibpstwpqnbiwwdwqbsufwbpbowebmwlmsw,bilbytpoiku .twqbewtwbyrwnbgn
yrwbyrl. ryblkbuddwqupywbktwwqldabPybiu ryblkbyrwdbyrwbswpqwtblkbyrw
Gls poubjtuwqbpsl.qbkltbyrwdbylbiwucwbyrwbuoyt.qwtib.mlobyrwbqpui,bg.y
ruibpoiewtbepibpbimwptbr.tswqbgnbyrwbowptwiybgspjf,bpoqbpibrwbs.o wq
klteptq,bqwpq,byrwbgpyyswbepibloa

YrwbGls poubuobyrwbmpspjwb twpysnbl.yo.dgwtwqbyrwbgspjfi,bg.ybyrwbspyywt
rpqbyrwbpqxpoyp wblkbrlsquo byrwbuoywtultblkbyrwbyrtlowbtlldbuo
i.kkujuwoybo.dgwtibylbmtwxwoybyrwbwoytnblkbdponbGls poubiud.sypowl.isna
Yptcpo,buddwqupywsnbrwbtwjl oucwqbyrwbywdmwtblkbyrwbgspjfi,bjpsswq
Vpq-gps-vpbylbklsslebrud,bpoq,bqwijwoquo bktldbyrwbqpui,brwbyllfbjlddpoq
lkbyrwb ldpo pouabPybwpjrblmwouo brwbmspjwqbi.kkujuwoybdwobylb .ptqbuy,
poqbpybyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwbtlldbrwbrwsqbyrwbgpspojwbuobtwiwtxwabYrwobrw
jpsswqbyrwblsqbdpobuoylbjloi.sypyuloa

“Yrwb pywbuobyrwbwpiybepssbuiblmwo,”brwbipuqab“UbswkybuybilberwobU
woywtwqabEl.sqbuybgwbmliiugswbkltbyewoynbltbyrutynbgspjfibylbtwpjrbuybuo
ipkwynbpoq,bwoywtuo byrwbkltwiy,bjpttnbeltqbylbyrwbxussp wtiblkberpybui
ytpoimutuo brwtwbuobyrwbmpspjw,bpoqbmtwxpusb.mlobyrwdbylbiwoqbpssblk
yrwutbepttultibuddwqupywsnbylbjldmswywbyrwbeltfblkbwdpojumpyulobyrpybew
rpxwbgw .o?”

“Uybuibpobwhjwsswoybmspo,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpoab“YrwbGls poubptwboly
.mlobyrpybiuqwblkbyrwbmpspjwbgwyewwob.ibpoqbyrwb pyw,bpoqbukbuybdpnbwxwt
gwbpjjldmsuirwq,bolebuibyrwbyudwabUbeussbmujfbnl.tbdwobkltbnl.abYrwn
d.iybgwbrwpq-dwo,berliwbeltqibeussbjpttnbildwbewu rybeuyrbyrwbxussp wti
l.yiuqwbyrwbmpspjwbepssia”

“ llq!”bwhjspudwqbYptcpoab“Iwswjybyrwdbuddwqupywsn;bywssbyrwdberpybew
epoybpoqb.t wb.mlobyrwdbyrwbowjwiiuynbkltbrpiywa”

Lowbgnblowbyrwblsqbdpobjrliwbyrutynbepttulti,berliwbq.ynbrwbjptwk.ssn
whmspuowqbylbwpjrabYrwnbewtwbqwsu rywqbeuyrbyrwbmspobpoqbpii.twqbYptcpo
yrpybuobswiibyrpobpobrl.tbyrwbkutiyblkbyrwbtwuokltjwdwoyibel.sqbjldwa

“Pibnl.bswpxwbyrwbwojsli.tw,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpo,b“qwiytlnbyrwbsljfbukbnl.
jpo,bilbyrpybyrwbGls poubdpnbolybsljfbuybp puobpoqbgptbl.ybl.t
twuokltjwdwoyiabJpttnbpsilbyrwbeltqbyrpybyrwbkutiyberlbjldwbptwbyl
twdpuobl.yiuqwbyrwbepssb.oyusbpbi.kkujuwoybo.dgwtbrpxwbpttuxwqbylbdpfw
woytnbuoylbyrwbmpspjwb tl.oqibtwpilopgsnbipkw—pybswpiybpibdponbpibptw
euyruobyruibtlldbolea”

Yrwbgspjfibiu oukuwqbyrwutb.oqwtiypoquo ,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbmpiiwqbl.y
lkbyrwbtlldbyrtl. rblowblkbyrwbeuoqleibpoqbquipmmwptwqbuoylbyrwbqptfowii
lkbyrwbou rybgwnloqa

IrltysnbpkywtbyrwbgspjfibrpqbswkybyrwbGls poubdpqwbpbqwywtduowqbt.ir
.mlobyrwb ldpo poub .ptquo byrwbdpuobwoytpojwbylbyrwbyrtlowbtlld,beuyr
yrwbtwi.sybyrpybpbijltwbltbdltwblkbyrwb ltussp-dwobi.jjwwqwqbuobj.yyuo 
yrwutbepnbuoylbyrwbtlldabPybyruibkutiybuoqujpyuloblkbtwxwtipsbyrwbgspjfi
irlewqbiu oiblkbkpsywtuo ,byrwbkwptblkbyrwbGls poubyrpybepibuorwtwoybuo
yrwdbirleuo buobyrwutbepxwtuo bpyyuy.qwbpoqbiwwduo btws.jypojwbylbkltjw
pbjl.oywtbpyypjfabPibYptcpobswpmwqbklteptqbylbpiiuiybuobjrwjfuo byrw
t.irblkbyrwbGls poubuoylbyrwbyrtlowbtlldbrwbjpsswqbylbVpq-gps-vp,bpoqbpi
yrwb twpybsulobswpmwqbktldbyrwbqpuibyrwbpmw-dpo,bmluoyuo bylbyrwbowptwiy
Gls pou,bjtuwq:b“Fuss!bFuss!”

Iytpu rybkltbyrwbyrtlpyblkbyrwbowptwiybswpmwqbVpq-gps-vpabYrwb twpybvpei
jsliwqb.mlobyrwbioptsuo bkpjwblkbyrwbktu rywowqb ltussp-dpobg.yblojw,
poqbyrwo,bpybyrwbjlddpoqblkbruibdpiywtbyrwb lsqwobsulobqtlmmwqbyrw
jptjpiibpkywtbpbiuo swbirpfwbpoqbswpmwqb.mlobpolyrwtabYrtwwbrpqbquwq
yr.ibuobz.ujfbi.jjwiiuloberwobyrwbgpspojwblkbyrwbGls pouby.towqbylbksww
yruibjrpdgwtblkbrlttlti;bg.ybyrwb ldpo pou,byrwutbjlokuqwojwbtwiyltwqbgn
yrwbwpiwbeuyrberujrbyruibkuwtjwbpssnbgtl. rybqwpyrbpoqbywttltbylbyrw
yntpoyi,buoywtmliwqbyrwdiwsxwibgwyewwobyrwbGls poubpoqbyrwbqlltepn,
ir.yyuo blkkbyrwutbtwytwpya

“Rlsqbyrwd!bRlsqbyrwd!”bjtuwqbYptcpoab“Qlbolybfussbyrwd!”bPoqbyrwobyl
yrwbGls pou:b“I.ttwoqwtbpoqbnl.beussbolybgwbrptdwq!”

Vpq-gps-vpbjs.o bjsliwbylbyrwbiuqwblkbruibdpiywt,b sptuo bpoqb tlesuo 
pybyrwbGls pou,bpoqbjpiyuo bpobljjpiulopsbgwiwwjruo bsllfbpybyrwbpmw-dpo
erujrbipuqbmspuowtbyrpobeltqi,b“Iwoqbdwbpdlo byrwda”

KukywwoblkbyrwbGls pouberlbrpqbwoywtwqbyrwbtlldbi.txuxwqabKltbpbdldwoy
yrwnbrwiuypywq,bpoqbyrwoblowblkbyrwdbyrtwebruibewpmloib.mlobyrwbksllta
Uddwqupywsnbyrwblyrwtibklsslewqbi.uya

Yptcpoby.towqbyleptqbVpq-gps-vpab“Gpjf!”brwbipuq,bmluoyuo byleptqbyrw
qpui,bpoqbpibyrwbsuloberwwswqbpoqbis.ofbpepnbyleptqbyrwbmspykltd,bYptcpo
y.towqbp puobyleptqbyrwbGls poua

“Swyblowblkbnl.tbo.dgwtb l,”brwbipuq,b“poqbpool.ojwbylbnl.tbkwssleibyrpy
Ubqwdpoqbyrwutbuddwqupywbi.ttwoqwta”

YrwbGls pouberuimwtwqbpdlo byrwdiwsxwibkltbpbkwebdldwoyibpoqbkuopssnblow
lkbyrwdbpool.ojwqbyrpybrwbel.sqb lbpoqbiwwbyrwblyrwtiabPkywtbrwbrpqbswky
yrwbtlldbyrwblsqbdpobpmmtlpjrwqbYptcpoa

“Yrwnbeussbowxwtbi.ttwoqwt,”brwbipuqab“Sllfbl.ybkltbytwpjrwtna”

“Uybuibpssbtu ry,”bipuqbYptcpoab“Ubpdbwhmwjyuo byrpy,bg.ybUbpdb puouo 
yudw,bpoqbyrpybuiberpybewbowwqbdliyabUkbyrwtwbewtwbpbmspjwbowptberwtwbU
du rybjlokuowbyrwiwblyrwtibUbirl.sqbkwwsbgwyywt,bkltbuybel.sqbj.ybqleo
l.tbpoyp louiyibgnbpybswpiybyrpybdpona”

“Yrwtwbuibpbtlldbyrwtw,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpo,bmluoyuo byleptqblowblkbyrw
qlltepnibuobyrwbyrtlowbtlld,b“erwtwbnl.bjpobjlokuowbyrwd—yrwtwbptwbdpon
i.jrbtlldibuobyrwbYlewtblkbyrwbWdmwtltia”

“ llq,”bipuqbYptcpo,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywt,bklssleuo bruibuoiyt.jyuloibyrw
Gls poubewtwbipkwsnbsljfwqbuobpbtlldbpqvluouo byrwbyrtlowbtlldabUobyrw
jlttuqltibeuyrl.ybyrwnbjl.sqbrwptbyrwbdpuobglqnblkbyrwb ltussp-dwobuo
pt .dwoyabUybepibwxuqwoybyrpybyrwnbewtwbquij.iiuo byrwbdwiip wbiwoybyl
yrwdbgnbYptcpoabKukywwobduo.ywibmpiiwq,bpoqbkuopssnbyrutyn,beuyrbolbeltq
ktldbyrwbGls poubpoqbolbtwi.dmyuloblkbrliyusuyuwi,bpoqbyrwobyrwtwbjpdw
ylbyrwbdpuobwoytpojwblkbyrwbyrtlowbtlldbyrwbkwssleberldbYptcpobrpq
qwimpyjrwqbeuyrbruibqwdpoqbkltbi.ttwoqwta

“Ewss,”bpifwqbyrwbpmw-dpo,b“erpybuibyrwutbpoiewt?”

“Yrwnbeussbolybi.ttwoqwt,”btwmsuwqbyrwbGls pou,b“g.ybyrwnbeussbmwtduy
nl.bylbswpxwbyrwbxpsswnbmtlxuqwqbyrpybnl.beussbtwswpiwbyrliwberldbnl.
rpxwbypfwobmtuilowtbpoqbrptdbolblyrwtia”

Yrwbpmw-dpobirllfbruibrwpqab“Yrpybeussbolybql,”brwbtwmsuwqab“Ubrlsqbyrw
mlewtbylbjt.irbyrwbGls poublkbyrwbXpsswnblkbQupdloqiabSllf,”bpoqbrw
mluoywqbyleptqbVpq-gps-vp,b“rwtwbuibyrwbyt.wbO.dpabYrwbjtwpy.twbnl.brpq
.mlobnl.tbyrtlowbepibg.ybpbeusqbgwpiy,bg.ybyruibuibO.dp,bFuo blkbGwpiyi,
WdmwtltblkbPssbJtwpywqbYruo iabSllfbpybrudabD.iybrwbgwbrwsqbuobswpirbgn
 lsqwobjrpuoibsufwbildwbmtuilowtbltbispxw?bOl!bRwbuibuoqwwqbpobWdmwtlta
G.ybyrwtwbuiblowbnwyb twpywtbyrpobrw,blowbktldberldbrwbypfwibjlddpoqia
PoqbyrpyblowbuibU,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabPo wtbdwbpoqbnl.birpssbkwwsboly
losnbyrwbetpyrblkbO.dp,bg.ybyrwbetpyrblkbYptcpo,bpibewssabYrwb ldpo pou
ptwbdnbmwlmsw,byrwbGls poubirpssbgwbdnbispxwiab lbpoqbywssbnl.tbkwsslei
yrpy,bpoqbyrpybukbyrwnbel.sqbsuxwbpybpssbyrwnbrpqbgwiybjldwbillobpoqbi.w
kltbdwtjnab l!”

Erwobyrwbdwiiwo wtbrpqbp puobqwmptywqbYptcpobsllfwqbpybyrwblsqbdpo,berl
epibwnwuo brudbeuyrbpobwhmtwiiuloberujrbdu rybrpxwbqwolywqbwuyrwtbpewblt
twxwtwojw,bewtwbuybolybkltbyrwbxp .wiybruoyblkbpbyeuofswbuobyrwbjltowti
lkbyrwbwnwiabYrwbpmw-dpobgtwpyrwqbpbqwwmbiu rblkbtwsuwkab“Yrpybeussb uxw
.ibpybswpiybpolyrwtbrpskbrl.t,”brwbipuqa

“Ewbirpssbowwqbuy,bpoqbdltw,byll,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpo,b“yrl. r,bpy
yrpy,bnl.brpxwbpjjldmsuirwqbdltwbyrpobUbrpqbyrl. rybmliiugsw,bkltbpy
swpiybnl.brpxwbm.ybpbql.gybuobyrwbduoqiblkbyrwbGls pou,berlbowxwtbgwkltw
rpxwbrpqbjp.iwbylbz.wiyulobyrwutbleobmlewta”

Mtwiwoysnbktldbyrwbl.ywtbjlttuqltibyrwbil.oqiblkbpt .dwoybpoqbquij.iiulo
 pxwbmspjwbylbyrpyblkbdlxwdwoybpdlo byrwbGls pouabPbjldmpon,bjldmtuiuo 
ildwbkukynblkbyrwb ltussp-dwo,byllfbmliybqutwjysnbl.yiuqwbyrwbdpuo
woytpojwblkbyrwbyrtlowbtlldberwtwbyrwnbiyllqbuobiuswojw,byrwutbewpmloi
twpqn,bpibyrl. rbkltbyrwbm.tmliwblkbquim.yuo bponbwkkltyb.mlobyrwbmpty
lkbyrwbuodpywiblkbyrwbtlldbylbwijpmwabGwnloqbyrwdbyrwbgpspojwblkbyrw
 ltussp-dwobjl.sqbgwbiwwobdlxuo bpepnbpoqbquipmmwptuo byrtl. rbqlltepni
poqbjlttuqltibswpquo bktldbyrwbdpuobrpssepnblkbyrwbmpspjwabYrw
 ldpo pou,byl wyrwtbeuyrbSpbpoqbyrwblsqbdpo,bepyjrwqbudmpyuwoysnbkltbyrw
jlduo blkbyrwbgspjfbtwuokltjwdwoyi,beruswbYptcpobipyb.mlobyrwbwq wblk
yrwbqpuibrpsk-twjsuouo ,beuyrbpobptdbpgl.ybyrwbowjfblkbVpq-gps-vpa

“Yrwnbptwb.mbylbildwyruo ,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpoab“Ewbd.iybepyjrbjptwk.ssn
p puoiybpbi.tmtuiwabUkbyrwbgspjfibel.sqbg.ybjldwbole,beruswbyrwbqlltepn
uibrwsqbgnblosnbkukyn,bewbirl.sqblxwtjldwbyrwdbwpiusn,bpoqbrpxw,bUbql
xwtusnbgwsuwxw,bildwbisu rybjrpojwblkbwijpmuo bktldbyrwbmpspjwb tl.oqia”

“Nl.tbslo btwiuqwojwbrwtw,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“rpibkusswqbnl.beuyrbyrwbipdw
iwoiwswiibkwptblkbyrwbGls poubyrpybyrwb ldpo poubrlsqabKtldbyrwbpyyuy.qw
lkbduoqberujrbnl.brlsqbyleptqbyrwdblowbel.sqbyruofbyrwdbildwbdpoowtblk
i.mwtdwo—yrwnbptwblosnbgwpiyi,bdnbktuwoq,bpoqbukbewbtwdpuobslnpsbylbl.t
jp.iwbewbirpssblxwtjldwbyrwda”

“Gwpiyibyrwnbdpnbgw,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpo,b“g.ybyrwnbptwbgwpiyibeuyrbyrw
gtpuoiblkbdwo—yrwutbj.oouo bpoqbyrwutbjt.wsynbptwbqupglsujpsa”

Pbslo biuswojwbwoi.wq,bgtlfwoblosnbgnbyrwbowtxl.iberuimwtuo iblkbyrw
 ldpo pou,berliwbdltpsw,buybepibwxuqwoy,bepibislesnbquiuoyw tpyuo b.oqwt
yrwbowtxl.ibiytpuoblkbyrwbwokltjwqbepuy,bpoqbyrwbkpus.twblkbyrwut
kwssleiblkbyrwbkltwiybylbjldwbz.ujfsnbylbyrwutbpuqabYlbyruibepibpqqwq
yrwbqwdltpsucuo bwkkwjyblkbimwj.spyulob.mloberpybyrwbGls poubewtw
mspoouo bltberpybmspobyrwnbpstwpqnbewtwbm.yyuo buoylbwkkwjyabYrwbxwtn
iuswojwblkbyrwb ltussp-dwobepibdltwbywttugswbyrpobyrwbquoblkbpjy.ps
piip.syabSpbepibyrwbkutiyblkbyrwberuywibylbgtwpfbyrwbiuswojwa

“Ukbyrutynblkbyrwb ldpo poubjl.sqbswpxwbyrwbmpspjwbilbwpiusn,bernbdu ry
olybewbswpxwbpsil?”birwbpifwqa

“Yrwtwbewtwbyelbtwpiloi,”btwmsuwqbYptcpoab“Lowbepibyrpybirl.sqbewbrpxw
swkybiud.sypowl.isnbyrwbGls pou,b twpysnbl.yo.dgwtuo b.ibpibyrwnbquq,
jl.sqbrpxwbrptpiiwqb.ibpoqbqwypuowqb.ibkltbpbi.kkujuwoybswo yrblkbyudw
ylbrpxwbmwtduyywqbyrwutbdwiiwo wtibylbtwpjrbyrwbxussp wtibprwpqblkb.i,
euyrbyrwbtwi.sybyrpybuobpbirltybyudwbewbirl.sqbrpxwbgwwobi.ttl.oqwqbgn
yrl.ipoqiblkbrliyuswbepttultiabYrwbiwjloqbtwpilobuibyrpybUbqwiutwbyl
m.ouirbyrwbjtwpy.twi,bilbyrpybuobk.y.twbpbiytpo wtbdpnbgwbipkwbuobyrw
XpsswnblkbyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqia”bRwbmp.iwqab“PoqbolebUbirpssb uxwbnl.
pbyrutqbtwpilobernbewbdpnbolybiwwfbylbwijpmwbpybyruibdldwoya”bRwbmluoywq
yleptqbyrwbeuoqleiblxwtsllfuo byrwbywttpjwab“Sllf,”brwbipuq,b“yrw
ywttpjwbpoqbyrwb ptqwoibptwbkusswqbeuyrbGls pouabErpywxwtbyrwutbmspobU
yruofbuyibi.jjwiibqwmwoqib.mlobl.tbpyywdmybylbwijpmwbktldbyruibtlld
yrtl. rbyrwbeuoqlei,bklt,b.oswiibUbpdbduiypfwo,byrwbGls poub.mlobyrw
ywttpjwbpoqbuobyrwb ptqwoibptwbdpfuo bpobpyywdmybylbruqwbyrwdiwsxwibktld
.ia”

Yrwblsqbdpobepsfwqbylbpbmptyblkbyrwbtlldbktldberujrbrwbjl.sqbiwwbyrw
 twpywtbmptyblkbyrwbywttpjwbpoqb ptqwoib.mloberujrbyrwbeuoqleiblkbyrw
yrtlowbtlldbsllfwqa

“Nl.bptwbtu ry,”brwbipuqberwobrwbtwy.towqbylbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibiuqw;b“yrw
Gls poubptwbpssbdpiiwqbl.yiuqwbyrwiwbeuoqleibeuyrbyrwbwhjwmyuloblkbyrliw
erlb .ptqbyrwbwoytpojw,bpoqbmliiugsnbildwblyrwtibpybyrwbqlltepnibpy
lyrwtbmltyuloiblkbyrwbyrtlowbtlldabYrpy,brlewxwt,bewbd.iybqwywtduowa”bRw
epsfwqbz.ujfsnbylbyrwblmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrwbjrpdgwtbpoqbqtwebgpjfbyrw
rpo uo ibgwkltwblowblkbyrwbpmwty.twi,bquijsliuo bgwnloqbpbidpssbgpoqblk
Gls pouabYrwnbiyllqbyrwtwbdlyuloswii,bolybdpfuo bponbwkkltybylbiwucwblt
rptdbrudabYlbpolyrwtbwhuy,bpoqbpolyrwt,brwbewoy,bpoqbgwnloqbwpjr
quijlxwtwqbylbyrwbljj.mpoyiblkbyrwbjrpdgwtbyrwbipdwbiuswoyb ltussp
 .ptqupoiabRwbdpqwbyrwbjutjswblkbyrwbtlld,bmpiiuo blxwtbyrwbqpuibgwruoq
yrwbyrtwwbyrtlowi,bpoqbyrwobrwbjpdwbgpjfbylbYptcpobpoqbSpa

“UybuibpibUbi.imwjywq,”brwbipuq,b“ewbptwbwoyutwsnbi.ttl.oqwqab.oswii
rwsmbjldwibillobewbptwbsliya”

“G.ybyrwutbkltjwbuibquxuqwq,”bYptcpobtwduoqwqbruda

“Wxwobil,buybuibi.kkujuwoybylbpjjl.oybkltb.i,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpoa

“Mwtrpmibnl.bptwbtu ry,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“g.ybpybswpiybewbirpssbrpxwbp
g.ssnbku rya”

“Erpybuibyrpy!”bwhjspudwqbSp,bpoqbiud.sypowl.isn,bpyytpjywqbgnbyrwbipdw
oluiw,byrwbuodpywiblkbyrwbyrtlowbtlldbtpuiwqbyrwutbwnwibylbyrwbjwusuo 
pglxwbyrwd,berwtwbyrwnbipebyrpybytpmibrpqbgwwobsukywqbktldbpbqlcwo
lmwouo i,btwxwpsuo byrwbijlesuo bkpjwiblkbiwxwtpsbijltwblkb ltussp-dwoa

“Erpybptwbyrwnb.mbylbole!”bwhjspudwqbYptcpo,bpoqbpibyrl. rbuobpoiewtbyl
yrwbz.wtnbyrwbGls poubpglxwbgw pobr.tsuo bg.oqswiblkbg.touo ,blus-ilpfwq
tp i,byuwqbuob lpybifuoi,buoylbyrwbyrtlowbtlld,berujrbuddwqupywsn
jlddwojwqbylbkussbuybeuyrbpbyrujf,bi.kkljpyuo bidlfw,bpjjldmpouwqbgnbyrw
iywojrblkbg.touo bruqwbpoqbrputa




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHX
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbDPMbLKbGSLLQ


PKYWTbWiywgpobpoqbLepcpbrpqbg.tuwqbyrwb lsqbyrwnbtwy.towqbylbyrwbimly
erwtwbyrwnbrpqbswkybyrwutbkuxwbglni,bpoqbmtljwwquo beuyrbyrwdbylbyrw
tuxwtbdpqwbjpdmbkltbyrwbou ryabRwtwbyrwnbquij.iiwqbyrwutbmspoi,bqwjuquo 
ylbpgpoqlobyrwbgpspojwblkbyrwbmptynbylbtwpjrbyrwbjlpiybpibgwiybyrwn
du ry,beruswbyrwnbtwy.towqbylbpolyrwtbiwjyuloblkbyrwbjlpiyberwtwbyrwn
jl.sqbtwjt.uybi.kkujuwoybmltywtibylbjpttnbl.ybyrwb lsqa

“Uoiywpqblkb luo bepnbgpjfbylbyrwbjlpiybkltbmltywti,”bpifwqbWiywgpo,
“ernbjl.sqbewbolybv.iybpibewssbtwjt.uybyrwdbktldbyrwbowptwiybxussp w?”

“I.jrbdwobel.sqbolyb lbeuyrb.ibepnbylbyrwbjlpiy,”btwmsuwqbLepcpab“Yrwn
ptwbolybmltywtiabPybgwiybyrwnbel.sqbg.ybjpttnbl.tb lsqbylbyrwbowhy
xussp wa”

“Ernbolybyrpy,byrwo?”buoz.utwqbyrwbImpouptqab“Poqbpybyrwbowhybxussp wbew
jl.sqbwdmslnbmltywtibylbjpttnb.iblobiyussbkptyrwt,b.oyusbewbjl.sqbwdmsln
lyrwtbdwobylbjloyuo.wblobeuyrb.ia”

Lepcpbirllfbruibrwpqab“Uybuibpb llqbmspo,bGepop,bg.ybewbjpoolybqlbuy,
gwjp.iwbewbrpxwbolyruo beuyrberujrbylbmpnbl.tbmltywtia”

Wiywgpobijtpyjrwqbruibrwpqab“Nl.bptwbtu ry,”brwbipuq,b“g.ybuybel.sqbipxw
.ibyrpybqpdopgswbytumbylbyrwbjlpiybpoqbtwy.toa”bYrwnbipybkltbildw
dldwoyibuobiuswojw,byruofuo ab“Ubrpxwbuy!”bpybspiybwhjspudwqbyrw
Impouptqab“Wxwobukbewbrpqbyrwbmltywtibolebewbjl.sqbolyb lbqutwjysnbyl
yrwbjlpiybkltbkwptblkbdwwyuo bKsltpbRpefwi’ibmptyn—ewbd.iybswybyrwdb wy
l.yblkbPktujpbgwkltwbewbypfwbyrwb lsqbylbyrwbjlpiyabYelbdloyribeussbgw
olowbyllbslo bylbepuy,bkltbyrwnbptwb luo bylbrpxwbpbqwxusblkbpbyudw
 wyyuo bylbyrwbjlpiybpybpssbeuyrbyrpybg.ojrblkbd.yuol.ibmltywtiabErusw
ewbptwbepuyuo ,byrwtwkltw,bswyb.ibypfwblowblkbyrwbuo lyiblkb lsqbylbyrw
owptwiybmluoybpyberujrbewbjpobquimliwblkbuybkltbytpqwb llqiabYrwobewbjpo
twy.tobpoqbrutwbmltywtibylbjpttnbuybktldbxussp wbylbxussp wa”

“YrwbGepopbimwpfibeltqiblkbeuiqld,”btwmsuwqbLepcpab“Uybuibolybpibkptbyl
yrwbowptwiybytpquo bmliybpibuybuibgpjfbylbyrwbjlpiy,bpoqbyr.ibewbirpss
olyblosnbipxwbyudw,bg.ybpsilbdponbslo ,brptqbdptjrwia”

“Uobyrwbdltouo ,byrwo,bewbirpssbtwy.tobpoqb.owptyrblowblkbyrwbuo lyi,
g.ybewbd.iybgwbi.twbyrpybolowblkbnl.tbdwobpjjldmpouwib.i,bkltbolblow
d.iybfoleb.oyusbuybuibpgils.ywsnbowjwiiptnberwtwbyrwb lsqbuibg.tuwqa
Erwobewbtwy.tobkltbuy,blkbjl.tiw,byrwoblyrwtibd.iybfole,byll,bg.y
uopid.jrbpibewbirpssbgwbeuyrbuybjloiypoysnbyrwtwpkywtbyrwtwbeussbgw
suyyswbqpo wtblkbuyibgwuo bypfwobktldb.ia”

Poqbilb.mlobyrwbklssleuo bdltouo byrwbImpouptqbpoqbLepcpbtwy.towqbylbyrw
g.tuwqbytwpi.tw,berwtwbyrwnb.owptyrwqbpbiuo swbuo lya

GwkltwbrwbswkybyrwbimlybyrwbImpouptqbqtweb.mlobyrwbuoowtbi.tkpjwblkbyrw
swlmptqbifuobyrpybrwbeltwbpjtliibruibirl.sqwtbpobpjj.tpywbdpmblkbyrw
sljpyuloblkbyrwbytwpi.tw,bdpfuo byrwbqtpeuo beuyrbpbirptmwowqbiyujf,
qummwqbuobyrwbgsllqblkbpbidpssbtlqwoybrwbrpqbfusswqbkltbyrwbm.tmliwa
KtldbLepcpbrwblgypuowqbyrwbopyuxwbopdwiblkbyrwbtuxwtbpoqblkbi.jr
spoqdptfibpibewtwbxuiugswbktldbyrwbimlybpyberujrbyrwbytwpi.twbepi
g.tuwq,byl wyrwtbeuyrbpibwhmsujuybqutwjyuloibpibmliiugswbkltbtwpjruo 
yrwbmspjwbktldbyrwbjlpiyabYruibuokltdpyulo,byll,brwbetlywbgwslebyrwbdpm,
poqberwobrwbrpqbkuouirwqbrwbkwsybd.jrbtwsuwxwqbktldbyrwbkwptbyrpybirl.sq
p. rybgwkpssbLepcpbrwbdu rybowxwtbgwbpgswbylbsljpywbyrwb lsqa



ErwobVpowbJspnylobtwpjrwqbyrwbjlpiybylbypfwbmpiip wbkltbSloqlobirwbkl.oq
pepuyuo brwtbpbeutwbiypyuo byrpybrwtbkpyrwtbepibwoyutwsnbl.yblkbqpo wt,
poqbyrpybyrwtwbepibolbowjwiiuynbkltbrwtbjlduo bylbrudabIrw,byrwtwkltw,
pkywtbpbkwebqpniblkbtwiy,by.towqbrwtbkpjwbp puobyleptqbrldw,bpoq
jlddwojwqbylbtwytpjwbyrwbiywmiblkbyrwbslo ,brly,bewptnbvl.townbyrpybirw
rpqbv.iybjldmswywqabErwo,bkuopssn,birwbpttuxwqbpybyrwbg.o pslebirw
swptowq,bylbrwtbjloiywtopyulo,byrpybYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibrpqbolybnwy
twy.towqbktldbruibwhmwquyulobylbyrwbjuynblkbLmptbpkywtbyrwb lsqbktldbyrw
ytwpi.twbxp.syiabIrwbkl.oqbFltpf,bwxuqwoysnbd.jrbwhwtjuiwq,bg.y
.oeussuo bylbxlujwbpbql.gybpibylbyrwbpgusuynblkbruibkpyrwtbylbjptwbklt
rudiwskabIrwbswptowqblkbyrwbwijpmwblkbyrwb lsqwobsulobeuyrbtw twy,bklt
irwbfowebyrpybYptcpobrpqbgwjldwbd.jrbpyypjrwqbylbyrwbolgswbgwpiya

Uybepibyrwbiwjloqbqpnbpkywtbrwtbtwy.tobyrpybyrwbEpcutuberlbrpq
pjjldmpouwqbYptcpobtwy.towqbeuyrl.ybrudabYrwo,buoqwwq,bepibrwtbrwpty
kusswqbeuyrbkwptbkltbrwtbsltqbpoqbdpiywtabIrwbz.wiyulowqbyrwbdwo
jptwk.ssn,bpoqberwobirwbswptowqbktldbyrwdbyrpybYptcpobrpqbi.kkwtwq
polyrwtbpjjuqwoybyrpybrpqbp puobpkkwjywqbruibdwdltn,birwbuddwqupywsn
pool.ojwqbyrpybirwbel.sqbiwybl.yblobyrwbklssleuo bqpnbuobiwptjrblkbrud,
jlddpoquo byrwbEpcutuberlbrpqbv.iybtwy.towqbylbpjjldmponbrwta

Fltpfbpyywdmywqbylbquii.pqwbrwt,bg.ybkpusuo buobyrpybuoiuiywqb.mlo
pjjldmponuo brwta

“Ewbd.iybolybpssbgwbpepnbpyblojw,”birwbipuqab“Nl.btwdpuobrwtw,bdnbiloa
UkbUbkpusbUbirpssbtwy.tobpoqbswybnl.b la”

“Ubjpoolybswybnl.b lbpslow,bDlyrwt,”btwmsuwqbFltpfa

“UbpdbolybpslowberwobyrwbEpcutubptwbeuyrbdw,”birwbsp. rwqab“Poqbnl.bfole
mwtkwjysnbewss,bgln,byrpybUbpdbpibipkwbponerwtwbuobyrwbrwptyblkbPktujp
euyrbyrwdbpibUbpdbrwtwbpybyrwbtpojra”

“Nwi,bnwi,bUbi.mmliwbil,”brwbtwmsuwq,b“g.ybUbeuirbUbdu ryb l,bltbyrpy
Dwtuwdbewtwbrwtwa”

“Nwi,bU,byll,beuirbyrpybDwtuwdbewtwbrwtw,”btwmsuwqbSpqnb twniylfwa
“Rlewxwt,bqlbolybelttnabNl.bfolebyrpybdnbv.o sw-jtpky,beruswbolybwz.ps
ylbyrpyblkbYptcpobltbFltpf,buibgnbolbdwpoibpbmlltbpiiwy,bpoqbyrpy,
i.ttl.oqwqbgnbyrwbslnpsynbpoqbgtpxwtnblkbyrwbEpcutu,bUbirpssbgwbipkwa”

“Ubi.mmliwbnl.bptwbtu ry,”btwmsuwqbFltpf,b“g.ybUbqlbolybsufwbylbiwwbnl.
 lbeuyrl.ybdwa”

Poqbil,bolyeuyriypoquo bruiblgvwjyuloi,bVpowbJspnylobiwybl.ybyrwbowhy
dltouo beuyrbkukynbEpcutubepttultibuobiwptjrblkbrwtbipxp wbdpywa



ErwobWiywgpobpoqbLepcpbrpqbolybtwy.towqbylbjpdmbpibyrwnbrpqbmtlduiwq,
yrwblyrwtbdwdgwtiblkbyrwbmptynbewtwbpybkutiybuojsuowqbylbpo wt,berujr
epibspywtbtwmspjwqbgnbjlojwto,bolybilbd.jrbkltbyrwbipkwynblkbyrw
Impouptqbg.ybkltbkwptbyrpybLepcpbdu rybrpxwbdwybeuyrbpobpjjuqwoybpoq
el.sqbolybtwy.tobylbypfwbyrwdbuobipkwynbylbyrwbjlpiy,bkltblkbpssbyrw
gspjfibrwbpslowbiwwdwqbjldmwywoybylbrpoqswbyrwbi.tsnbpoqbd.yuol.i
jpttuwtiabYrwbow tlwibijl.ywqbyrwbuqwpbyrpybLepcpbrpqbgwjldwbsliybpoq
ewtwbdltwbuojsuowqbylbyrwblmuoulobyrpybrwbpoqbWiywgpobrpqbqwsugwtpywsn
qwiwtywqbyrwdabS.xuou,berlbpjywqbpibrwpq-dpobuobLepcp’ibpgiwojw,brpqbp
yrwltnblkbruibleoa

“LepcpbpoqbyrwbGepopbrpxwb lowbpkywtbyrwbuxltnbtpuqwtibpslowabGn
ytujfwtnbyrwnbdpnbpjjldmsuirbpibd.jrbpibewbjl.sqbrpxwbpjjldmsuirwqbgn
kltjw,bpoqbyrwtwbeussblosnbgwbyelbpdlo berldbylbquxuqwbyrwbuxltna”

“G.ybrlebdpnbyelbdwoblxwtjldwbpbgpoqblkbtpuqwti?”buoz.utwqbKsltp,
ifwmyujpssna

“Nl.bqlbolybfolebLepcp,”bpoiewtwqbS.xuouab“Ukbrwbjpob puobyrwbwptiblk
yrwutbispxwibrwbeussbeuobyrwdblxwt,bpoqberwobyrwbPtpgibiwwbyrpybrwberl
pjjldmpouwibLepcpbpoqberlbku ryibpybyrwbrwpqblkbyrwbd.yuol.ibispxwibui
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,byrwnbeussbkswwbuobywttlta”

“Ubgwsuwxwbrwbuibtu ry,”bd.yywtwqbFtpifu,b“uybil.oqibv.iybsufwbyrw
Impouptq,”bpoqbyrwobi.qqwosnbrwby.towqb.mlobS.xuouab“Jpobnl.bswpqb.ibyl
yrwbtpuqwti’bjpdm?”brwbqwdpoqwqa

“Nwi,”btwmsuwqbyrwbow tla

“ llq,”bwhjspudwqbFtpifu;b“poqbole,bKsltp,berpybqlbnl.byruofblkbyrui
mspo?bSwyb.ibiwoqbpbieukybt.oowtbylbyrwbtpuqwti,beptouo byrwdbp puoiy
LepcpbpoqbyrwbImpouptq,bpoqbywssuo byrwdbyrpybyrwbspyywtbuibolybYptcpo
lkbyrwbPmwi,bg.ybpobudmliyltabEwbjpobpifbyrwdbylbjpmy.twbpoqbrlsqbyrw
yelb.oyusbewbjldw,bpoqbpkywtbewbpttuxwbewbjpobdpfwbi.jrbk.tyrwtbmspoibpi
yrwbjutj.diypojwibmwtduyabXwtnbmliiugsnbewbjpobjpttnbl.ybl.tbltu uops
qwiu obpkywtbewbrpxwblojwbwoywtwqbyrwutbjpdmbpibktuwoqia”

“Nwi,byrpybil.oqib llq,”btwmsuwqbKsltp,b“poqbuybuibjwtypuosnbjtllfwq
wol. r—v.iybsufwbnl.,bnl.tiwska”

YrwbT.iiupobgs.irwqab“‘Gutqiblkbpbkwpyrwt’—”brwbz.lywqa

Yrwb utsbirt.  wqbrwtbirl.sqwtibuoqukkwtwoysn,bg.ybGs.gwt,berl,beuyr
MwwgswibpoqbYrtljf,brpqbgwwobiuswoybsuiywowtibylbyrwbjloxwtipyulo,
gs.iywtwqa

“Xlybqlbnl.bdwpobgutqibxuybkwqqwti?”brwbqwdpoqwqab“Erlbxpibpbjtllf?bU
ywssbnl.,bDuiywtbJptsbFtpifu,bUbpdbpobrlowiybdpo,bqlybuibxloby’uo bqly
olbdpobqlo’ybipnbpgl.ybPqlsmrbGs.gwt,brwbuibpbjtllfa”

“Lbir.yb.m,”biopmmwqbFtpifu,b“ukbyrwtw’ibponyruo buobuybnl.’ssbgwbklt
uy—ukbyrwtw’ibolbtuifabYrwiwbkwssleibiylswbyrwbuxltnbyrwdiwsxwi,bpoq
fusswqbpbslyblkbmwlmsw,bmtlgpgsn,bylbqlbuyabUobpqquyulobyrwnbrpxwbypfwo
ispxwi,berujrbewbeussbktwwa”

“Lbxwss,”bipuqbGs.gwt,b“ukbuybuibkputb.oqbwzxuypgsw,bxn,bpssbtu ry,bg.y
v.iybtwdwdgwt,bDuiywtbFtpifu,bqlyb_U_bpdbpobrlowiybdpoa”

“Gsudw!”bwhjspudwqbYrtljf,b“ew’twbpssbrlowiy;bU’xwbowxwtbiwwobi.jrbp
qleonbg.ojrblkbmptiloibuobpssbdwbsukwa”

“I.twbew’twbrlowiy,”btlptwqbVlrobMwwgswi,b“poqbponlowb’pybipnibewbpuo’y
 wyib’uibgpssnb’wpqbfoljfwqblkk,bpoqb’wtwbewbptw,b’obyrpy’ibyrpya”

Yrwb utsbiduswqbewptusnab“Nl.bjpobpsepnibywssbrlowiybdwo,”birwbipuqa
“Yrwnb lbptl.oqbywssuo byrwbeltsqbrlebrlowiybyrwnbptwabG.ybowxwtbduoq
yrpy;byrwbyruo bolebuibylbqwjuqwberwyrwtbewbepoybylbklsslebFtpifu’i
i.  wiyulobltbolyabUy’ibildwyruo bew’xwb lybpssbmtwyynbewssbylbp tww
.mlobgwkltwbewb.oqwtypfwbuyabYrwtwbptwbkuxwblkb.iabSwy’ibswpxwbuybylbp
xlywabQlbew,bltbqlo’ybew?”

“Eussbyrwbdwobpjjldmponb.i?”bpifwqbFtpifu,by.touo bylbS.xuoua

“Ukbyrwnbptwbmtlduiwqbpbirptwblkbyrwbuxltnbyrwnbeuss,”btwmsuwqbyrw
gspjfa

“RlebdponbptwbuobkpxltblkbJpts’ibmspo?”bpifwqbKsltpa

Yrwnbewtwb.opoudl.isnbkltbuy,bpoqbilbuybepibqwjuqwqbyrpybyrwnbel.sq
.oqwtypfwbyrwbxwoy.tw,bpoqbpbrpskbrl.tbspywtbpbt.oowtbepibqwimpyjrwqblo
yrwbytpusbylbyrwbtpuqwti’bjpdmbeuyrbpbdwiip wbkltbyrwbtpuqwtbjruwka
Irltysnbpkywt,byrwbmptynbgtlfwbjpdmbpoqbyllfb.mbuyibdptjrbuobyrwbipdw
qutwjyuloa

Pbewwfbspywt,berwobyrwnbtwpjrwqbyrwbjpdmblkbyrwbtpuqwtibyrwnbkl.oqbyrpy
yrwutbdwiiwo wtbrpqbpttuxwqbipkwsnbpoqbyrpybyrwnbewtwbwhmwjywqabWiywgpo
poqbLepcpbrpqbolybm.ybuobpobpmmwptpojwboltbrpqbponyruo bgwwobiwwoblt
rwptqblkbyrwdbuobyrwbxujuouynabYrwbtwi.sybepibyrpybyrwbPtpgibewtw
uojsuowqbylbgwbi.imujul.ibpoqbi.tsn,bkwptuo byrpybyrwbdwiip w:bgtl. ry
ylbyrwdbrpqbgwwobg.ybpbt.iwbylbmwtduybyruibjloiuqwtpgswbglqnblkberuywi
poqbptdwqbgspjfibylbwoywtbyrwutbiyljfpqwbuobipkwyna

VpowbJspnylobpoqbrwtbEpcutubdlxuo btpmuqsn,bmujfwqb.mbyrwbimlltblkbKsltp
Rpefwi’ibipkptubpybyrwbjpdmberwtwbyrwbEpcutubrpqbspiybiwwobWiywgpo,berld
yrwnbiyussbyrl. rybylbrpxwbgwwobYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabKlssleuo byrw
mspuosnbdptfwqbytpus,bpoqbdlxuo bd.jrbdltwbtpmuqsnbyrpobyrwbRpefwi
ipkptu,bVpowbpoqbyrwbEpcutubdpqwbjpdmbeuyruobpbduswblkbyrwbuxltnbtpuqwti
losnbpgl.ybpbewwfbpkywtbyrwbRpefwibmptynbrpqbpttuxwqbpoqberwtwbyrwn
iyussbtwdpuowq,bepuyuo bwuyrwtbkltbyrwbjlduo blkbLepcpbpoqbWiywgpo,blt
kltbpbmtlmuyul.ibdldwoybuoberujrbyrwnbjl.sqbsp.ojrbyrwutbytpuyltl.i
piip.syb.mlobyrwbPtpgiabUobyrwbdwpoyudw,bS.xuoubpoqbildwblkbyrwblyrwt
gspjfibrpqbi.jjwwqwqbuobiwjtwysnbimtwpquo byrwbmtlmp poqpblkbtwxlsy
pdlo byrwbispxwiblkbyrwbPtpgiabYrl. rbrwbtwmltywqbruibmtl twiibqpusnbyl
KsltpbRpefwi,brwbquqbolybtwmltybyrwbiywpqnb tleyrbpoqbqwxwslmdwoyblkbp
suyyswbmtuxpywbmspoblkbruibleo,berujrbjloywdmspywq,buobpqquyulobylbyrw
twxlsyblkbyrwbispxwi,bpoqbyrwbispnuo blkbyrwbPtpgi,byrwbd.tqwtblkbpss
yrwberuywibuobyrwbjpdm,beuyrbyrwbwhjwmyuloblkbKsltpbRpefwi,berldbS.xuou
euirwqbylbmtwiwtxwbwuyrwtbkltbrudiwskbltbkltbipswbylbildwbgspjfbi.sypo
lkbyrwboltyrabUybepibS.xuou’ibirtweqbmspobylbkutiybispnbyrwbPtpgi,beuyr
yrwbpiiuiypojwblkbyrwberuywi,bpoqbyrwobylbkpssb.mlobyrwberuywibpoqbispn
yrwd,bpkywtbyrwutbglqnbiwtxpoyibrpqbiylswobyrwutbewpmloibktldbyrwda

YrpybS.xuoubel.sqbrpxwbgwwobpgswbylbjpttnbl.ybruibmspobeuyrbwpiwbyrwtw
uibsuyyswbql.gy,brpqbuybolybgwwobkltbyrwbslnpsynbpoqbpkkwjyuloblkbp
nl.o bgspjfbglnbpyypjrwqbylbKsltpbRpefwibkltbrwtbmwtilopsbiwtxujwa

Yrwbnl.o beruywbeldpo,bolyeuyriypoquo byrwbswo yrbylberujrbirwbel.sqb l
uobyrwbipyuikpjyuloblkbrwtb twwqbpoqbpxptujw,bepibpbfuoqbpoqbuoq.s woy
duiytwiiabYrwbfuoqowiiwibirwbrpqbirleobyruibu oltpoybsuyyswbgspjfbgln
ewtwbmtwiwoysnbylbtwy.tobrwtbquxuqwoqibkptbgwnloqbrwtbuoxwiydwoya

S.xuoubrpqbgwwobylbrwtb.mlobpbjwtypuobpkywtollobylbpqxuiwbrwtbyrpybpss
epibtwpqn,bpoqbyrpybyrwbtwxlsyblkbyrwbispxwibpoqbyrwbd.tqwtblkbyrwbPtpgi
irl.sqbypfwbmspjwbyrpybwxwouo ,buddwqupywsnbpkywtbqptfabYrwbj.muquynblk
yrwberuywibrpqbslo bgwwobptl.iwqbgnbyrwbiyltwblkbuxltnbmliiwiiwqbgnbyrw
tpuqwti,beuyrbyrwbtwi.sybyrpybpssbewtwbdltwbyrpobwp wtbkltbyrwbkuops
iywmbuobyrwbjloimutpjnbyrpybel.sqbm.ybyrwdbuobmliiwiiuloblkbjloiuqwtpgsw
ewpsyra

Uybepibv.iybgwkltwbyrwbwxwouo bdwpsbyrpybyrwbsuyyswbow tlbglnbjtwmybuoyl
KsltpbRpefwi’ibywoyabRwbepibxwtnbeuqw-wnwq,bpoqbywttugsnbktu rywowqa

“Erpybuibyrwbdpyywt?”birwbqwdpoqwqa

“I-ir!”brwbjp.yulowqab“Qlbolybswybyrwdbrwptbnl.bimwpfbylbdw,bg.ybm.y
nl.tbwptbjsliwbylbdwberuswbUbywssbnl.buobpbslebxlujwberpybS.xuoubui
mspoouo a”

Yrwb utsbgwoybrwtbrwpqbjsliwbylbyrwbsumiblkbyrwbsuyyswbgspjfab“Nl.brpxw
gwwobfuoqbylbdw,”brwberuimwtwq,b“poqbolebyrpybS.xuoubel.sqbrptdbnl.bU
rpxwbjldwbylbywssbnl.a”

“Erpybqlbnl.bdwpo?”bwhjspudwqbKsltp,buobpbslebxlujwa

“UbdwpobyrpybS.xuou,bpkywtbyrwbPtpgibptwbfusswq,brpib uxwobltqwtibyrpy
yrwbgspjfbglnibfussbpssbyrwberuywbdwobpoqbypfwbnl.bmtuilowtabRwbuoywoqi
ylbwuyrwtbfwwmbnl.bkltbrudiwskbltbylbiwssbnl.buobyrwboltyrbkltbpb twpy
i.dblkbdlowna”

“G.ybrlebqlbnl.bfolebpssbyrui?”bqwdpoqwqbyrwb utsa

“Pssbyrwbgspjfibuobjpdmbfolebuy,”btwmsuwqbyrwbglnab“Ubepibylbrpxwbiylswo
nl.tbtukswbpoqbnl.tbmuiyls,bpibwpjrblkbyrwbglnibeussbiywpsbyrwbewpmloi
lkbruiberuywbdpiywta”

Yrwb utsbimtpo bylbrwtbkwwyab“U’ssbywpjrbyrpybou  wtbpbswiilo,”birw
jtuwq,biwucuo brwtbmuiylsbpoqbiytuquo byleptqbyrwbkspmblkbyrwbywoya

Yrwbglnbiwucwqbrwtbpgl.ybyrwbfowwibpoqbrwsqbrwtab“Ol!bol!”brwbjtuwqab“Ql
olybqlbuyabQlbolybipnbponyruo abUybeussblosnbdwpobyrpybyrwnbeussbfuss
yrwberuywbdwobillowtbpoqbypfwbnl.bmtuilowtbv.iybyrwbipdwabWxwtnbgspjf
glnbuobyrwbjpdmbuibp puoiybnl.abS.xuoubrpibmtlduiwqbyrpybyrwbuxltnbirpss
gwbquxuqwqbwz.pssnbpdlo byrwdbpssabYrwnbptwbtwpqnbole,bpoqbukbnl.birl.sq
yrtwpywobS.xuou,bltbukbuobponblyrwtbepnbyrwnbirl.sqbswptobyrpybnl.bewtw
peptwblkbyrwbmsly,byrwnbel.sqbkpssb.mlobnl.buddwqupywsna”

“Erpybqlbnl.bwhmwjybdwbylbqlbyrwo?”birwbpifwqa

“Yrwtwbuibg.yblowbrlmw,bpoqbyrpybuibuobksu ryabNl.bpoqbyrwberuywbdwo
d.iybwijpmwbuoylbyrwbv.o swabOlybwxwobUbdpnbpjjldmponbnl.a”

Yrwb utsbiyllqbsllfuo bpybyrwbsuyyswbglnbuobiuswojwbkltbpbdldwoy,bpoq
yrwobkuopssnbirwbipuq,b“Xwtnbewss,bUbeussbqlbpibnl.bipnabNl.brpxwbipxwq
dnbsukwabMwtrpmibUbdpnbowxwtbgwbpgswbylbtwmpnbnl.,bpoqbmwtrpmi,bp puo,bU
dpnab l,bole,bgwkltwbi.imujulobpsu ryib.mlobnl.a”

Yrwbgspjfbeuyrqtwebktldbyrwbywoy,bjtpesuo bgwowpyrbyrwbgpjfbepssbyl
pxluqbgwuo biwwobgnbponblkbruibkwssleiberlbewtwbuobyrwbjwoywtblkbyrw
jpdmbktldberujrbyrwbktloyblkbyrwbywoybepibuobmspuobxuweabUddwqupywsnbrw
epib lowbKsltpbepsfwqbjpi.pssnbuoylbyrwblmwobpoqbewoybylbFtpifu’ibywoy,
erujrbyrwbT.iiupobljj.muwqbuobjlddlobeuyrbGs.gwtabIrwbkl.oqbyrwbyelbdwo
poqbuobsleberuimwtibpmmtuiwqbyrwdblkberpybyrwbgspjfbrpqbylsqbrwtabFtpifu
yrwobjpsswqbMwwgswibpoqbYrtljf,buybgwuo bqwjuqwqbyrpybyrwnbirl.sqb uxw
olbl.yeptqbiu oblkbrlsquo bponbi.imujulobyrpybp. rybepibetlo abYrw
Wo suirdwobewtwbkltbv.dmuo buob.mlobyrwbgspjfibpoqbpoouruspyuo byrwd,
g.ybKsltpbRpefwibquii.pqwqbyrwdbktldbponbi.jrbtpirbpjybgnbmluoyuo bl.y
rleb twpysnbyrwnbewtwbl.yo.dgwtwqbgnbyrwbopyuxwi,bpoqbrlebrlmwswiibuy
el.sqbgwbylbpyywdmybylblxwtmlewtbyrwda

Gs.gwt,beuyrbruib.i.psbj.oouo bpoqbirtweqowiiberujrbuojsuowqbpsepnibyl
ql.gswbqwpsuo berwtwbyrwtwbepibyrwbisu rywiybmliiugusuynbkltbuy,
i.  wiywqbyrpybyrwnbiwjtwysnbpqxuiwbyrwbPtpgiblkberpybyrwnbrpqbswptowq,
poqbvluouo bkltjwibeuyrbyrwdbypfwb.mbpibiytlo bpbmliuyulobuobyrwbjpdmbpi
mliiugswbpoqbjlddwojwbylbkutwbuoylbyrwbgspjfibeuyrl.ybepuyuo bkltbyrwut
pyypjfa

P puobKsltpbRpefwibxwylwqbyrwbi.  wiyuloab“Uybeussbolybql,”birwbipuq,
“kltbyrwbPtpgibptwbpybrwptybpibd.jrbl.tbwowduwibpibyrwbgspjfiabUkbew
ewtwbi.jjwiik.sbuobi.gq.uo byrwbou  wtibuybel.sqbgwbg.ybpbz.wiyuloblk
duo.ywibgwkltwbyrwbPtpgibfowebwxwtnbqwypusblkbyrwbmslybyrpybewbrpqbspuq
p puoiybyrwd,bpkywtberujrbl.tbsuxwibel.sqbolybgwbeltyrb_yrpy_,”bpoqbirw
iopmmwqbrwtbkuo wtia

“Ub .wiibKsltpbuibtu ry,bpib.i.ps,”b tleswqbMwwgswi,b“g.yberpybuob’wss
ptwbewb luo’bylbqlbepoqwtuo’bptl.oqbuobyruib’wtwbv.o swbeuyrl.ybol
ou  wtibylbr.oybkltb.i,bltbjllfbkltb.i,bltbjpttnbyruo ibkltb.i,bltbkuoq
l.tbepnbkltb.i,byrpy’ibelybU’qbsufwbylbfole,bpoqb’wtwbewbptw,b’obyrpy’i
yrpya”

“Ol,bUb .wiibyrwtwbpuo’ybolyruo’bwsiwbylbql,”bipuqbYrtljf;b“g.ybgsudwbuk
Ubsufwibylbt.obpepn,bipnibU,bswpiyeuiwbolybkltbolbqutynbou  wtia”

Yrwtwbjpdwbyrwobylbyrwbwptiblkbyrwberuywi,bt.dgsuo bktldbyrwbkpt
quiypojwbuobyrwbv.o sw,byrwbtlptblkbpbsuloa

“_Lu!bLu!_”bjtuwqbGs.gwtab“Xwb lbl.ybpssbpslowbuobqlybv.o sw?b_Dwuo
 lyy!_bUbv.iybpibillobiypnbrwtwb.oqb wybfusswqbsufwbpbxuywbdpoa”

“Yrwnbelo’ybfussbnl.bsufwbpberuywbdpo,”bipuqbFtpifuab“Yrwn’ssbylty.tw
nl.bukbnl.biypna”

Gs.gwtbet.o bruibrpoqi,bpoqbyrwbiewpyblkbkwptbtlsswqbqleobruiblusnbkpjwa
“_Lu!_bxnbquqbUbqlowbuy?bxnbquqbUbqlowbuy?”brwbepuswqab“Xnbquqo’ybUbiypn
rldwbuobSloqlobxwtwbUbgwslo ?”

“Ir.yb.m!”biopmmwqbKsltpab“Qlo’ybnl.bfolebyrpybukbnl.bqlbponyruo byl
ptl.iwbyrwbi.imujuloblkbyrwiwbkwssleibyrwnbeussbgwblob.ibpyblojw?bYrwtw
uiblosnblowbyruo bkltb.ibylbqlbpoqbyrpybuibylbepuyb.oyusbyrwn
mtwjumuypywbyrwbpyypjfb.mlobyrwbPtpgiabEwbeussbiyussbrpxwbl.tbewpmloi,
kltbyrwnbqlbolybmspobylbiywpsbyrwdbktldb.ib.oyusbpkywtbyrwbPtpgibptw
fusswqabUobyrwbjlok.iuloblkbyrwbku ry,bewbd.iybdpfwbl.tbwijpmwbuoylbyrw
v.o sw,bpoqbpkywtbyrpy— lqbfolei—poqb lqbrwsmb.ia”

“Nwi,”bgs.ggwtwqbGs.gwt,berlbepibuobpbgs.wbk.of,b“_ lyy_brwsmb.i!”

PbdldwoybspywtbS.xuoubjpdwbylbyrwdab“Pssbuibtwpqn,bGepopi,”brwbipuqab“Pi
illobpibyrwbwxwouo bdwpsbrpibgwwobwpywo,bgwbuobtwpquowiiabNl.beussbrwpt
pbirly,byrpybeussbgwbyrwbiu opsabYrwoblmwobkutwb.mlobyrwbPtpgia”

“ llq,”bipuqbFtpifu;b“ewbrpxwbv.iybgwwobypsfuo bpgl.ybuybpoqbewbrpxw
qwjuqwqbyrpybewbeussbypfwbl.tbiypoqbowptbyrwb pywbylbmtwxwoybyrwut
wijpmwa”

“Uybuibewss,”bipuqbS.xuou,b“g.ybnl.bd.iybtwdpuobrwtwa”bRwbepibpqqtwiiuo 
Ksltpab“Uybel.sqbolybgwbipkwbkltbnl.bylbgwberwtwbyrwtwbuibylbgw
ku ryuo abTwdpuobrwtwbuobnl.tbywoy,bpoqbewbeussbjlokuowbyrwbku ryuo byl
yrwblyrwtbiuqwblkbyrwbxussp wbpoqbmliiugsnbylbyrwb pyw,bukbponblkbyrwd
dpfwibpbgtwpfbkltbwijpmwa”

“Pssbtu ry,”bipuqbKsltp,b“Ubeussbtwdpuobrwtwberwtwbuybuibipkwa”

Ipyuikuwqbyrpybyruo ibjl.sqbolybrpxwbeltfwqbuoylbruibrpoqibylbgwyywt
pqxpoyp wbyrwbgspjfbswkybyrwd,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbyrwbwoyutwbjpdmbepi
ljj.muwqbeuyrbyrwbwxwouo bdwpsabYrwtwbepibpobpydlimrwtwblkbtwiytpuoy,
poqbru r,bowtxl.ibywoiulobyrtl. rl.ybyrwbwoyutwbjpdmbyrpybd.iybrpxwbgwwo
olyujwpgsw,bwxwobylbyrwbPtpgi,byrl. rbyrwn,bpslowblkbyrwbwoyutwbjldmpon,
ewtwbu oltpoybpibylbuyibjp.iwabGs.gwtbepibilbywttukuwqbyrpybrwbjl.sqboly
wpy,bg.ybipyberuywbpoqbytwdgsuo beuyrbruibwnwibtlxuo beusqsnbpgl.ybyrw
jpdm—kutiybylbyrwbgspjfi,byrwobylbyrwbPtpgi,bpoqbyrwobylbyrwb pyw,byrw
quiypojwbylberujrbrwbd.iybrpxwbdwpi.twqbpbr.oqtwqbyudwibpibrwbipybyrwtw
epuyuo bkltbyrwbirlybyrpybepibylbgwbyrwbiu opsbkltbyrwbdpiipjtwbyrpybepi
ylbiwoqbrudbl.ybuoylbyrwbv.o swbylbgw,brwbi.twsnbyrl. ry,byrwbuddwqupyw
mtwnblkbyrwbkutiybr.oyuo bsulobyrpybmpiiwqa

MwwgswibpoqbYrtljfbpywbyrwutbdwpsbiylsuqsn,bd.jrbylbGs.gwt’ibqui .iya
Ftpifu,bgwuo blkbpbru rsnbowtxl.ibywdmwtpdwoy,bpywbg.ybsuyysw,bg.ybrw
irlewqbolbiu oiblkbkwptabOltbquqbKsltpbRpefwi,byrl. rbpybrwptybirw
twpsucwqbyrwbrlmwswiiowiiblkbyrwutbiuy.pyuloa

QptfowiibrpqbkpsswoabIldwblkbyrwbgspjfibpoqbPtpgibewtwbiyussbwpyuo ,
erwobi.qqwosnbyrwbiuswojwbepibirpyywtwqbgnbyrwbirptmbiypjjpylbtwmltyblk
pbtukswabPobPtpgbipofbiuswoysnbylbyrwbwptyrabFtpifubtliwbpoqb tpimwq
Ksltpbgnbyrwbptdab“Jldw!”brwbjtuwqa

KlsslewqbgnbMwwgswibpoqbYrtljf,bpoqbmtwjwqwqbgnbGs.gwt,bylberliwbkwwy
ktu rybrpqbswoybeuo i,byrwnbr.ttuwqbyleptqbyrwb pywblkbyrwbmpsuipqwa

Gnbolebyrwbputbepibkusswqbeuyrbyrwbrlptiwbjtuwiblkbku ryuo bdwobpoqbyrw
twmltyblkbtukswiabYrwbPtpgi,berlbrpqbo.dgwtwqbg.ybpgl.ybpbqlcwo,bewtw
m.yyuo b.mbpb pdwbku ry,bpoqbgwuo bkptbgwyywtbdptfidwobyrpobyrwbgspjfi,
yrwbuii.wblkbyrwbgpyyswbepibiyussbuobql.gyberwobFtpifublmwowqbyrwb pyw
poqbyrwbkuxwberuywibkswqbuoylbyrwbqptfowiiblkbyrwbv.o swa

Yrwbl.yjldwblkbyrwbku rybeuyruobyrwbjpdmbjl.sqbolybrpxwbgwwoblyrwtbyrpo
uybepi,bkltbilb twpysnbquqbyrwbgspjfibl.yo.dgwtbyrwbPtpgi,byrpy
wxwoy.pssn,bolyeuyriypoquo byrwutbmlltbdptfidpoirum,byrwnbi.jjwwqwqbuo
irllyuo bqleobyrwbspiyblkbyrwboldpqiblkbyrwboltyrabYrwobuybepibyrpy
S.xuouby.towqbruibpyywoyulobylbyrwblyrwtberuywiblosnbylbquijlxwtbyrpy
yrwnbrpqbkswqbyrwbxussp wabYrwbgspjfbtwpsucwqbyelbyruo ibuoiypoysnabLow
epibyrpybildwlowbrpqbgwytpnwqbrud,bpoqbyrwblyrwt,byrpybyrwberuywibjl.sq
olybrpxwb lowbkptbuobyrwbirltybyudwbiuojwbyrwnbrpqbswkybyrwbjpdma

Jpssuo bruibepttultibpgl.ybrudbrwbwhmspuowqbylbyrwdberpybrpqbrpmmwowq,
poqbudmtwiiuo b.mlobyrwdbyrpybyrwberuywi,bukbmwtduyywqbylbwijpmw,bel.sq
wxwoy.pssnbtwy.tobeuyrbtwuokltjwdwoyibylbm.ouirbyrwbgspjfi,brwbptl.iwq
ruibklsslewti,berlbolebo.dgwtwqblxwtbyelbr.oqtwqbepttulti,bylbyrw
owjwiiuynblkbiwyyuo bl.ybuddwqupywsnb.mlobyrwbytpusblkbyrwbk. uyuxwibpoq
lxwtypfuo byrwdbgwkltwbyrwnbjl.sqbjpttnbeltqbwxwobylbpbowu rgltuo 
xussp w,byrwbowptwiyblkberujrbepibolybdltwbyrpobpbqpn’ibdptjrbquiypoya




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHXU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbQUPDLOQbRLPTQ


PIbyrwbmtuduyuxwbidlfwbgldgibkusswqbyrwbyrtlowbtlldblkbyrwbYlewtblkbyrw
Wdmwtltibeuyrbyrwutbi.kkljpyuo bk.dwi,byrwb ldpo poubjs.iywtwqbpgl.y
Yptcpobgw  uo brudbylbipxwbyrwd,bkltbyrwn,byll,brpqbiwwobyrwbdpiiwq
Gls poubgwkltwbwxwtnbwoytpojwbpoqbyrwb twpybglqnblkbyrwdbyrpybpepuywqbuo
yrwb ptqwoibpoqb.mlobyrwbywttpjwbeuyrl.ya

“Epuybpbduo.yw,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“.oyusbyrwbidlfwbuibyrujfbwol. rbylbruqw
l.tbdlxwdwoyibktldbyrwbGls pou,bpoqbyrwobewbeussbt.irbyrwbeuoqlei
lxwtsllfuo byrwbywttpjw,bkltbyrwnbptwbowptwtbyrwbwpiyb pywbyrpobpon
lyrwtbwhuy,bpoqbyr.ibildwblkb.ibeussbrpxwbpbgwyywtbjrpojwbkltbwijpmwa”

“Ubrpxwbpbgwyywtbmspo,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpoab“Erwobyrwbidlfwbjlojwpsib.i,
klsslebdwabYrwtwbuiblowbwhuybyrpybuib.o .ptqwq,bmtlgpgsnbgwjp.iwbyrwnbql
olybqtwpdbyrpybewbel.sqb.iwbuyabErwobUbmpiiwqblxwtbyrwbqpuibgwruoqbyrw
yrtlowbUbyllfbljjpiulobylbolywbyrpybyrwtwbewtwbolbGls poub .ptquo buya”

“Erwtwbqlwibuybswpq?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“UoylbyrwbgpiwdwoyblkbyrwbYlewtblkbQupdloqi—yrwbylewtbuoberujrbU
quijlxwtwqbnl.abYrpybmltyuloblkbyrwbmpspjwbuibowptwiybylbyrwbwpiyb pyw,
poqbukbewbjpobtwpjrbuybgwkltwbyrwnbi.imwjybl.tbm.tmliwbyrwtwbeussbgw
suyyswbql.gybyrpybewbjpobtwpjrbyrwbkltwiybpybswpiya”

“Imswoquq!”bwvpj.spywqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Uybeussbolybgwbslo bolebgwkltwbyrw
idlfwbruqwib.ibktldbyrwbGls poua”

Uobkpjybuybepibilbyrujfbgnbyruibyudwbyrpybyrwbljj.mpoyiblkbyrwbyrtlow
tlldbewtwbkuoquo bqukkuj.synbuobgtwpyruo abDponblkbyrwdbewtwbjl. ruo 
poqbjrlfuo bpoqbyrwbwnwiblkbpssbewtwbepywtuo bktldbyrwbwkkwjyiblkbyrw
pjtuqbidlfwabPoqbnwybyrwnbewtwbolybwoyutwsnbruqqwobktldbyrwblgiwtxpyulo
lkbyrwbepyjrwtibpssbpgl.ybyrwda

“Ubqlo’ybfolebrlebd.jrbdltwblkbyruibewbjpobiypoq,”bipuqbYptcpoab“Ubrpxw
pgl.ybpssbUbjptwbklt,bolea”

“Uyb_ui_byrujfwouo b.mbpbguy,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpoab“V.iybpbdldwoybdltwbpoq
Ubyruofbewbjpobdpfwbuyb.oiwwoa”

“Ubjpobiypoqbuybolbslo wt,”bjtuwqbSpab“Ubpdbi.kkljpyuo bpoqbUbpd
rpsk-gsuoqwqa”

“Xwtnbewss,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpo;b“Ubql.gybukbyrwnbjpobiwwb.iboleabUybui
mtwyynbyrujfabJldw,bklsslebdw;”bpoqbrwbswqbyrwbepnb.mbyrwbiywmiblkbyrw
qpuibpoqbyrtl. rbpobpmwty.twbgwruoqbyrwbyrtlowi—pbidpssblmwouo bruqqwo
gnbrpo uo iabYrwblsqbdpobewoybkutiy,bpoqbyrwobSp,bklsslewqbgnbYptcpobpoq
Vpq-gps-vp,berlbrpqbpgl.ybtwpjrwqbyrwbsuduyblkbruibwoq.tpojwbpoq
mpyuwojw,bilbyrpybuybrpqbgwwobeuyrbqukkuj.synbyrpybYptcpobrpqbtwiytpuowq
rud,bpoqberlbolebepibxlujuo bruibpo wtbuobqwwmb tlesiberujrbdu rybrpxw
pmmtuiwqbyrwbGls poublkbyrwutbpxwo.wblkbwijpmwabGwruoqbYptcpobpoqbyrw
sulobjtleqwqbyrwbjl. ruo b ldpo pou;bg.ybgwjp.iwbVpq-gps-vpbepibv.iybuo
ktloyblkbyrwdbyrwnbquqbolybjtleqbpibjsliwsnb.mlobyrwbmptynbprwpqblkbyrwd
pibyrwnbmtlgpgsnbel.sqbrpxwbqlowblyrwteuiwa

Yrwbpmwty.twblmwowqbuoylbpbqptfbjlttuqltberujrbswqbqleobpbksu ryblk
tl. rbiywmibylbpbslewtbswxws,bpoqbyrwobiytpu rybyrtl. rb.yywtbqptfowii
kltbyrwbtpyrwtbjloiuqwtpgswbquiypojwberujrbiwmptpywqbyrwbYlewtblk
QupdloqibktldbyrwbYlewtblkbyrwbWdmwtltiabIlb twpybepibyrwutbtwsuwkbpy
wijpmuo byrwbqwoiwbidlfwblkbyrwbyrtlowbtlldbyrpybolowblkbyrwbmptyn
duoqwqbyrwbqptfowiiblkbyrwbjlttuqlt,bg.ybklsslewqbmpyuwoysnbyrwbswpqblk
yrwblsqbdpoberlbrpqbwhmspuowqbyrpybyrwbkutiybiyputibqleoberujrbyrwnbrpq
mpiiwqbewtwbyrwblosnblgiypjswibylbgwbwojl.oywtwqbuobyrwby.oowsa

Pybyrwbjlttuqlt’ibwoqbyrwblsqbdpobrpsywqbgwkltwbpbrwpxnbqllt,berujr
pkywtbjloiuqwtpgswbqukkuj.synbrwbdpop wqbylblmwoa

“Epuybpbdldwoy,”brwbipuq,b“.oyusbUbkuoqbpbjtwiiwybpoqbdpfwbpbsu rya”

Yrwnbrwptqbrudbdlxuo bpgl.ybgwnloqbyrwbqlltepnbkltbpbdldwoybpoqbyrwobp
qudbsu rybksptwq,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbyrwbeujfbuobpbjtwiiwybksujfwtwqabUobyrw
qudbtpnibYptcpobipebgwkltwbyrwdbpbspt wbtwjypo .sptbjrpdgwt,byrwb twpy
iucwblkberujrbepiblosnbmptyupssnbi.  wiywqbuobyrwbepxwtuo bsu ryblkbyrw
jtwiiwya

“ wybyrwdbpssbuo,”bipuqbyrwblsqbdpo,b“poqbjsliwbyrwbqllt;”bpoqberwobyrpy
rpqbgwwobqlowbrwbjpsswqbylbYptcpoab“Jldw!”brwbipuqab“Gwkltwbewbswpxw
yruibjrpdgwtbUbepoybylbirlebnl.bi.jrbpbiu rybpibolblyrwtbr.dpobwnwibrpxw
wxwtbtwiywqb.mloa”

Rwbswqbrudbylbyrwbkptbiuqwblkbyrwbjrpdgwtberwtw,buobyrwbsu ryblkbyrw
jtwiiwy,bYptcpobipebyuwtbpkywtbyuwtblkbirwsxwi,b.mloberujrbewtwbiypjfwq
idpssbipjfibdpqwblkbifuoiabYrwblsqbdpobiwybyrwbjtwiiwyb.mloblowblkbyrw
irwsxwibpoqbypfuo bpbipjfblmwowqbuybpoqbimusswqbpbmltyuloblkbyrw
jloywoyibuoylbyrwbmpsdblkbruibrpoqab“Qupdloqi,”brwbipuqab“Wpjrblkbyrwiw
mpjfp wibewu ribkuxwbml.oqibpoqbwpjrbjloypuoibqupdloqiabYrwnbrpxwbgwwo
pjj.d.spyuo byrwdbkltbjl.oyswiibp wi,bkltbyrwnbduowbkptbdltwbyrpobyrwn
jpob.iwbyrwdiwsxwiabUobyrwutbsw woqibuibyrwbgwsuwkbyrpybildwbqpnbyrw
Pyspoyupoibeussbtwy.tobpoqbyrwnbjpobiwssbyrwbqupdloqibylbyrwdabPoqbil
yrwnbjloyuo.wbylbduowbyrwdbpoqbiyltwbyrwdbpibyrl. rbyrwtwbepibpbjloiypoy
poqbtwpqnbdptfwybkltbyrwdabRwtw,bypfwblowblkbyrwbgp ibeuyrbnl.,”brw
ipuqabRwbrpoqwqblowbylbYptcpobpoqbpolyrwtbylbSpa

“Ubqlbolybgwsuwxwbyrpybewbirpssbwxwtbswpxwbyrwbxpsswnbpsuxw,bg.ybew
du ry;”bpoqbrwbyllfbpbyrutqbgp bkltbrudiwska

Ktldbyrwbqupdloqbxp.sybyrwblsqbdpobswqbyrwdb.mbpbmtuduyuxwbspqqwtbylbyrw
kslltbpglxw,bpoqbz.ujfsnbylbyrwbdpuobwoytpojwblkbyrwbYlewtabLosnbyel
rwpxnbqllti,bglsywqb.mlobyrwbuoiuqw,bolebspnbgwyewwobyrwdbpoqbyrw
ywttpjw,bpbirltybquiypojwbgwnloqberujrbyrwbwpiyb pywbie.o blmwoabYrwblsq
dpobepibpgl.ybylblmwobyrwbqlltiberwobYptcpobiylmmwqbruda

“Epuybpbdldwoy,”brwbipuq,b“.oyusbyrwbtwiyblkbyrwb ldpo poubjldwabUy
ypfwibyrwdbildwbyudwbylbpijwoqbyrwbspqqwtabErwobyrwnbptwbpssbrwtwbgwruoq
.i,bieuo byrwbqlltiblmwo,bpoqbnl.bpoqbSp,beuyrbyruibywobltbpbqlcwo
 ldpo poubyrpybptwbuddwqupywsnbptl.oqb.i,bdpfwbpbgtwpfbkltbyrwb pywabYrw
twiyblkb.ibeussbgtuo b.mbyrwbtwptbpoqbrlsqbyrwbGls poublkkbuobjpiwbyrwn
pyypjfb.iab wybtwpqn,”brwbpqqwqbpbdldwoybspywt,b“Ubyruofbyrwnbptwbpss
.ma”

Jptwk.ssnbYptcpobwhmspuowqbylbyrwb ldpo poubyrwbmspobrwbrpqbuobduoq,bpoq
yrwo,by.touo bylbyrwblsqbdpo,brwbjlddpoqwqb“Ole!”bYrwbglsybisummwq,byrw
qlltibie.o blmwo,bpoqbiud.sypowl.isnbyrwbwoyutwbmptynbiyptywqbpybpbt.o
yleptqbyrwbwpiyb pywa

YrwbGls pou,berlbewtwbiyussbdpiiwqbpgl.ybyrwbyrtlowbtlld,bewtwbolybpeptw
yrpybyrwutbxujyudibrpqbws.qwqbyrwdb.oyusbYptcpo,bgtuo uo b.mbyrwbtwpt
euyrbVpq-gps-vpbepibmpiiuo byrtl. rbyrwbwpiyb pywabYrwobyrwbGls pou
quijlxwtwqbrud,bpoqbuddwqupywsnbiwyb.mbpbr.wbpoqbjtnbyrpybgtl. ry
iwxwtpsbr.oqtwqblkbyrwdblobpbdpqbt.obuobm.ti.uya

“Rwtwbyrwnbjldw,”bjtuwqbYptcpobylbyrwblyrwti,b“dpfwbpbt.oblk
uy—iytpu rybqleobyrwbxpsswnbyleptqbLmpt,bSpa”

“Poqbnl.?”bqwdpoqwqbyrwbnl.o beldpoa

“Ubirpssbtwdpuobpbdldwoybeuyrbyrwb ldpo pou,bpoqbpyywdmybylbm.ouirbyrwiw
kwssleia”

Spbiylmmwqbuobrwtbytpjfiab“Ubirpssbolyb lbpbiywmbeuyrl.ybnl.,bYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwi,”birwbipuqab“Yllb twpybpstwpqnbptwbyrwbtuifibnl.brpxwbypfwobklt
dwabOl;bUbirpssbolyb lbeuyrl.ybnl.a”

Yrwbpmw-dpobirt.  wqab“Pibnl.beuss,”brwbipuqab“Rwtwbyrwnbjldwa”

Euyrb twpybqukkuj.synbrwbtpssuwqbpbmltyuloblkbyrwb ldpo pouberl,blojw
yrtl. rbyrwb pyw,biwwdwqbudg.wqbg.ybeuyrbpbiuo swbm.tmliw,bpoqbyrpybyl
m.ybpibd.jrbquiypojwbgwyewwobyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqibpoqbyrwdiwsxwibpi
mliiugswabMwtrpmibkukynbepttultibtpssuwqbylbruibjpss,bpoqbeuyrbyrwiwbrw
iyllqbuobyrwb pywepnbyleptqberujrbiwxwtpsbr.oqtwqbGls poubewtwbole
jrpt uo a

Yrwblsqbdpobjpdwbpoqbyl.jrwqbYptcpoblobyrwbptdab“Nl.brpqbgwyywtbksn,”brw
ipuqab“Yrwb ldpo poubeussbgtwpfbpoqbt.obpybyrwbkutiybpiip.sya”

“Ewbeussb puobolyruo bgnbksnuo ,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“kltbewbirl.sqblosnbsliw
erpybewbrpxwb puowqbeuyrbyrwb ldpo pou,bpoqbyrwobewbirl.sqbrpxwbyrw
erlswbxpsswnbpgl.yb.ibsufwbrltowyia”

Rwbrpqbijptjwsnbkuouirwqbimwpfuo berwoblowblkbyrwb ldpo poubjtuwq:
“Sllf!bSllf!bYrwnbjldw;”bpoqbmluoywqbpslo byrwbytpusbuoylbyrwbkltwiya

“Poqbv.iybuobyudw,byll,”btwdptfwqbYptcpo,bpibrwbipebyrwbkutiyblkbpbieptd
lkb ldpo poubml.tuo bl.yblkbyrwbkltwiybyleptqbyrwbwpiyb pywab“Jldw!”brw
jtuwqbylbyrwbpqxpojuo bgspjfi,b“yrwbGls poubptwb.mlob.iabJldw,bpoq
pxwo wbnl.tbetlo i!”bYrwobrwby.towq,bpoqbjpssuo bylbyrwbgspjfibptl.oq
rud,bswpmwqbklteptqbylbdwwybyrwblot.iruo b ltussp-dwoabGwruoqbyrwdbepxw
pkywtbepxwblkb ldpo poubtlsswqbyrtl. rbyrwbwpiyb pywblkbyrwbMpspjwblk
Qupdloqi,bjpttnuo bwxwtnyruo bgwkltwbyrwdbylbgtwpfbpybspiybsufwbi.tk
.mlobyrwbepxwtuo bepssblkbGls poubyrpybepibgwuo btwswoyswiisnbr.tswq
gpjfbp puoiybyrwbmpspjwbepssia

Yrwbirl.yuo bpoqbyrwbku ryuo bpoqbyrwbgsllqbeltfwqbVpq-gps-vpbuoylbi.jr
pbktwocnblkbwhjuywdwoybyrpybYptcpobeuyrbqukkuj.synbtwiytpuowqbrudbktld
imtuo uo b.mlobktuwoqbpoqbklwbpsufw,beuyrbyrwbtwi.sybyrpybuybtwz.utwqbil
d.jrblkbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibyudwbylbrlsqbuobswpirbruibkwtljul.ibpssnbyrpybrw
epibpgswbylbypfwbg.ybsuyyswbmptybuobyrwbgpyysw,bnwybrwbipebyrpybuybepi
 luo bruibepn,bpoqbyrpy,bg.ybkltbyrwbljj.ttwojwblkbildwb.oyleptqbwxwoy,
yrwbjldmswywbqwkwpyblkbyrwbGls poubepibpii.twqa

Oltbewtwbruibqwq.jyuloibwttlowl.iabIlbktpoyujbewtwbyrwb ldpo poubeuyr
yrwbgsllq-s.iyblkbtwxwo wbpoqbilbwoyr.iwqbgnbyrwbkutiybkt.uyiblk
xujyltn,byrpybyrwnbewoybk.ssnbpibdpqbpibVpq-gps-vpbrudiwskabYrwnbowuyrwt
 pxwboltbpifwqbz.ptywt,bpoqbyrwbku ryuo bwoqwqblosnberwobyrwnbjl.sqbkuoq
olbdltwbGls poubylbispna

Yrwbku ryuo blxwt,bYptcpo,beuyrbSpbpoqbyrwblsqbdpo,btwy.towqbylbyrw
yrtlowbtlld,bktldberujrbyrwbk.dwiblkbyrwbidlfwbgldgibrpqbole
quipmmwptwqabYlbyrwdbyrwnbi.ddlowqbyrwbrwpq-dpoblkbwpjrbxussp w,bpoq
erwobyrwnbrpqbpiiwdgswqbgwkltwbyrwbqpui,bpglxwberujrbiyllqbyrwbyrtww
eruywi,beuyrbyrwb twpy,bgspjf-dpowqbsulobVpq-gps-vp,bYptcpobpqqtwiiwq
yrwda

“ ldpo poublkbyrwbXpsswnblkbyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqi,”brwbipuq,b“nl.brpxw
yruibou rybelobnl.tbktwwqldbktldbyrwbyntpooujpsbdpiywtibyrpybrpxw
lmmtwiiwqbnl.biuojwbkptbgwnloqbyrwbyudwbyrwblsqwiyblkbnl.bdpnbtwdwdgwta
Kltbilbdponbjl.oyswiibp wibrpxwbnl.bgwwoblmmtwiiwqbyrpybyrwtwbrpibowxwt
qwxwslmwqbpdlo bnl.bpbswpqwtbjpmpgswblkbt.suo bnl.beuiwsnbpoqbv.iysna
Yrwtwkltwbnl.bd.iybiwswjybpbt.swtbktldbpolyrwtbtpjwbyrpobnl.tbleoa”

“Nl.!bNl.!”bjtuwqbxlujwbpkywtbxlujwbpibyrwbrwpq-dwobjspdltwqbylbdpfw
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibyrwutbfuo a

“Ol,”bjtuwqbyrwbpmw-dpo,brlsquo b.mbruibrpoqbkltbiuswojw,b“g.ybyrwtwbui
lowbrwtwberlbrpibsuxwqbslo bpdlo bnl.,bpoqberlbfoleibnl.tbrpguyibpoq
nl.tbj.iyldi,bnl.tbrlmwibpoqbnl.tbowwqibgwyywtbyrpobponblyrwtabUkbrw
eussbiypnbeuyrbnl.bpoqbt.swbnl.brwbeuss,bUbpdbi.tw,bdpfwbnl.bpb llq
fuo ,”bpoqbYptcpobmluoywqbylbyrwblsqbdpoa

YrwblsqbdpobsllfwqbpybYptcpobuobgweusqwtdwoyab“G.ybUbepoybylb lbpepn
ktldbrwtw,”brwbipuq;b“Ubepoybylb wybgpjfbuoylbyrwbeltsqblkbjuxusucpyulo,
ktldberujrbUbrpxwbgwwobg.tuwqbpssbyrwiwbnwptia”

“Nl.bqlbolybfoleberpybnl.bptwbypsfuo bpgl.y,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Nl.
rpxwbgwwob lowbxwtnbslo abNl.beussbkuoqbolbktuwoqibswkybgpjfbyrwtwbktld
erwojwbnl.bjpdwabNl.beussbkuoqbqwjwuy,bpoqbrnmljtuin,bpoqb twwq,bpoq
pxptujw,bpoqbjt.wsynabNl.beussbkuoqbyrpybolblowbeussbgwbuoywtwiywqbuo
nl.bpoqbyrpybnl.beussbgwbuoywtwiywqbuobolblowbyrwtwabU,bYptcpoblkbyrw
Pmwi,brpxwbswkybdnbv.o swbpoqb lowbylbyrwbjuyuwibg.usybgnbdwo,bg.y
psepnibUbrpxwbgwwobqui .iywqbpoqbgwwob spqbylbtwy.tobylbdnbv.o sw—yl
yrwbolgswbgwpiyibyrpybptwbrlowiybuobyrwutbslxwibpoqbuobyrwutbrpywi—yl
yrwbktwwqldbpoqb wo.uowowiiblkbopy.twa

“Ukbnl.btwy.tobnl.beussbgwbquipmmluoywq,bpoqbnl.beussbtwpsucwbyrpybnl.
rpxwbyrtleobpepnbpoblmmlty.ouynblkbpjjldmsuiruo bpbeltfbewssbeltyrbnl.t
eruswabYrwiwbmlltbjtwpy.twibowwqbnl.abUbjpoolybtwdpuobylb .uqwbyrwdbl.y
lkbqptfowii,bg.ybnl.bdpn,bpoqbnl.bdpnbilbdlsqbyrwdbyrpybyrwnbeussbgwbpo
uoq.iytul.i,bxuty.l.i,bpoqbfuoqsnbmwlmsw,bolyb.oytpuowq,brlewxwt,buobyrw
ptyiblkbeptkptw,bkltberwobewbrpxwbyrpyberujrbuib llq,byrwtwbeussbpsepni
gwbyrliwberlbptwbwoxul.ibpoqberl,bukbyrwnbptwbdltwbmlewtk.sbyrpobew,
eussbpyywdmybylbjldwbpoqbypfwberpybewbrpxwbgnbkltjwabYrwtwkltw,bnl.bd.iy
ytpuobnl.tbmwlmswbylbmtlywjybyrwutbjl.oytnbpoqbyrwutbtu ryi,bpoqbyl
mtlywjybyrwdbyrwnbd.iybrpxwbyrwbpgusuynbpoqbyrwbfoleswq wbylbku ry
i.jjwiik.ssn,bpoqbyrwbewpmloiberwtweuyrbylbep wbyrwutbeptia”

“Nl.bimwpfbyrwbyt.yr,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”btwmsuwqbyrwblsqbdpoab“Yrwtw
uibolyruo bkltbdwbuobyrpyblyrwtbeltsq,bil,bukbyrwb ldpo poubeuirbdwbyl
gwbyrwutbjruwkbUbeussbtwdpuobrwtwa”

Yrwbrwpq-dwo,berwobrwbz.wiyulowqbyrwd,bpii.twqbYptcpobyrpybukbyrwnbjl.sq
olybrpxwbrudbkltbjruwkbyrwnbel.sqbgwbxwtnb spqbylbrpxwbyrwblsqbdpo,berld
yrwnbpssbfowe,bwuyrwtbgnbiu rybltbtwm.ypyulo,bpiblowberlbrpqbowxwt
mwtmwytpywqbponbjt.wsyuwib.mlobyrwb ldpo poua

Yrwbkwebi.txuxuo bGls pouberlbrpqbypfwobtwk. wbuobxptul.ibmptyiblkbyrw
mpspjwbewtwbil. rybl.ybpoqbgtl. rybylbyrwbyrtlowbtlldabRwtwbyrwnbewtw
 uxwobyrwblmyuloblkbtwdpuouo buobyrwbxpsswnbpibispxwi,bltbswpxuo byrw
jl.oytnbwoyutwsnabYrwb ldpo poubel.sqbrpxwbkpsswob.mlobyrwdbpoqbispuo
yrwd,bg.ybyrpybyrwutbowebfuo bel.sqbolybmwtduya

“G.yberwtwbirpssbewb lbukbewbswpxwbyrwbXpsswnblkbyrwbMpspjwblk
Qupdloqi?”bpifwqblowblkbyrwbGls pouab“GwnloqbyrwbjuynblkbLmptbewbfole
olyberpybwhuiyi,bpoqbuobLmptbdpnbewbkuoqblosnbwowduwia”

Yptcpobipybwnwuo byrwdbz.uccujpssn,bpoqbuobiuswojwabKltbpbslo byudwbrw
quqbolybimwpf,beruswbiwxwtpsblkbyrwb ldpo poubrwpq-dwo,bpoqblyrwtiblk
yrwbGls pou,bdpqwbi.  wiyuloibkltbyrwbk.y.twblkbyrwb ltussp-dwoabKuopssn
yrwbpmw-dpobptliwbpoqbolqqwqbyleptqbyrwbGls poua

“Yrwtwbptwbpgl.ybpbr.oqtwqblkbnl.,”brwbipuqab“Nl.bptwbmlewtk.sbjtwpy.twi
poqbirl.sqbgwbkwtljul.ibku rywtiabGwiuqwbdwbiuyibSp,byrwbRu rbMtuwiywii
poqbz.wwoblkbLmptabPbeujfwqbmtuwiy,b.i.tmuo brwtbmlewt,brpibqtuxwobrwt
ktldbrwtbyrtlow,bg.ybyldlttlebewbdptjrb.mlobLmptbeuyrbyrwbgtpxwiy
 ldpo poublkbyrwbXpsswnblkbyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqi,bpoqbyrwtwbewbm.ouir
Jpqv,byrwbRu rbMtuwiy,berlbrpibmtlxwobpbytpuyltbylbruibz.wwo;bpoqbSp,
lojwbdltw,bpijwoqibyrwbyrtlowblkbLmptabG.yberwtwbyrwbiwwqiblkbytwpilo
rpxwblojwbgwwobgtlpqjpiybyrwbmspoybdpnbimtuo b.mbpybponbyudwbpoqberwtw
swpiybwhmwjywqabUybeussbgwbslo ,byrwtwkltw,bgwkltwbSpblkbLmptbdpnbrpxw
k.ssbjlokuqwojwbuobyrwbslnpsynblkbrwtbmwlmsw—pbkpjyberujrblkkwtibnl.bpo
lmmlty.ouynbpoqbpbjl.oytnabPjjldmponb.i,byrwtwkltw,bylbLmpt,bpoqbku ry
euyrb.ibylbtwmspjwbSpb.mlobrwtbyrtlow,bpoqbyrwo,berwobyrwbku ryuo bui
lxwt,btwdpuobyrwtwbpibSp’ibglqn .ptqbylbmtlywjybrwt,bolyblosnbktld
wowduwibeuyrl.y,bg.ybktldbwowduwibeuyruoa”

YrwbGls poubquij.iiwqbyrwbdpyywtbkltbiwxwtpsbduo.ywi,bpoqbyrwoblowblk
yrwdbjpdwbylbYptcpoab“Ewbeussbqlbpibnl.bi.  wiy,”brwbipuqa

“Poqbnl.beussbgwbslnpsbylbSp?”bpifwqbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“PbGls poubuibowxwtbpbytpuylt,”btwmsuwqbyrwb ltussp-dpoa

“ llq!”bwhjspudwqbYptcpo,b“poqbnl.,bSp,bptwbnl.bipyuikuwqbeuyrbyrui
pttpo wdwoy?”

“Ubpjjwmybyrwdbuobdnbiwtxujw,”btwmsuwqbirwa

Wptsnbyrwbowhybdltouo bYptcpobpoqbSpbiwybl.ybeuyrbyrtwwbyrl.ipoq
 ldpo poubpoqbpbr.oqtwqbGls poubylbm.ouirbyrwbytpuyltl.ibJpqvabYrwtwbepi
suyyswbltbolbpyywdmybpybiytpyw nbltbqwjwmyuloabYrwnbiudmsnbdptjrwqbqleo
yrtl. rbyrwbXpsswnblkbyrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqi,bqwijwoqwqbyrwbtljfnbtpxuow
uoylbyrwbxpsswnblkbLmpt,bpoqbdpqwbiytpu rybkltbyrwbtwptblkbyrwbmpspjwblk
Spa

Pbsuyyswb tpnbdlofwn,biuyyuo bpdlo byrwbxuowibpoqbjtwwmwtib.mlobyrwbylm
lkbyrwbywdmswbepssi,bipebyrwdbjlduo abRwbjljfwqbruibrwpq,bkutiyb.mloblow
iuqwbpoqbyrwob.mlobyrwblyrwt,bpoqbgwjpdwbilbuoywtwiywqbpoqbwhjuywqbyrpy
kltbpbdldwoybrwbklt lybylbijtpyjrbruibgwssn—pobljj.mpyulobrwbrpqbgwwo
piiuq.l.isnbm.ti.uo bkltbildwbyudwabYrwbjsliwtbyrwbjls.dobpmmtlpjrwqbyrw
dltwbwhjuywqbgwjpdwbDpo.,byrwbdlofwn,bpoqberwobrwbtwpsucwqbxp .wsnbyrw
 twpybo.dgwtiblkbyrwb ldpo poubrwbepibkputsnbgwiuqwbrudiwsk,bg.ybyrw
spiybiytpebyrpybiwoybrudbijpdmwtuo bdpqsnbgpjfbylbyrwbmpspjwblkbLmptbepi
yrwbiu ryblkbyrwbGls pou—yrwbl twiblkbruibsuyyswbeltsqa

Jpqvbepibuobyrwbjl.tynptqblkbyrwbuoowtbywdmsw,berwtwbpybi.otuiwbrwbrpq
mwtkltdwqbpbipjtukujwbylbyrwbKspduo b lqabEuyrbJpqvbewtwbpbo.dgwtblkbyrw
swiiwtbmtuwiyi,bpoqbLprbpoqbrwtbmtuwiywiiwiabYrpybyrwtwbepibquiiwoiulo
pdlo byrwdbepibwxuqwoybgnbyrwbijlesuo bkpjwibk.ssnbpibd.jrbpibgnbyrw
eltqiberujrbLprbqutwjywqbpybJpqva

“Lojwbp puobrpxwbnl.b lowbyllbkpt,bJpqv,”birwbjtuwqbguyywtsnab“Losnbdpn
yrwbRu rbMtuwiywiiblkbyrwbKspduo b lqbmwtkltdbyrwbpjyblkbipjtukujwabNwy
p puobpoqbp puobqlbnl.bmwtiuiybuobqwkusuo byrwbipjtwqbfoukwbeuyrbnl.t
.oeltyrnbrpoqa”

“Iuswojw,beldpo,”b tleswqbyrwbRu rbMtuwiyab“UbpdbJpqv,bFuo blkbLmpt,
Ru rbMtuwiyblkbyrwbKspduo b lqabNl.bptwberpybnl.bptwblosnbgwjp.iwblkbyrw
kpxltblkbJpqvabYtnbolybdnbmpyuwojwbyllbkptbltbnl.birpssbuoqwwqbfolebyrw
kwwsblkbyrwbipjtwqbfoukwa”bYrwtwbjl.sqbgwbolbduiypfuo byrwbiuouiywt
dwopjwbuobruibeltqiabIwxwtpsblkbyrliwbpgl.ybrudbjl.sqbussbjlojwpsbyrw
irljfwqbi.tmtuiwbyrwnbkwsybpybruibipjtusw ul.ibpyyuy.qwbyleptqbyrwut
Ru rbMtuwiywiiabRlewxwtbsuyyswbyrwnbyrl. ryblkbLpr,byrwbkpjybtwdpuowq
yrpybirwbrpqbgwwobwswxpywqbylbyrwbru rwiybmspjwbpdlo byrwd,bpoqbyrliw
yrpybgwsuwxwqbyrpybSpbepibqwpq,bpibJpqvbrpqbypfwob twpybmpuoibylbswpq
yrwdbpssbylbgwsuwxw,b pxwbuobk.ssbylbLprbyrwbtwxwtwojwberujrbrwtbru r
lkkujwbwoyuyswqbrwtbyla

“Rpxwbpbjptw,bJpqv,”beptowqblowblkbyrwblsqwtbmtuwiyiab“Yrwtwbuibpbsuduy
gwnloqberujrbolybwxwobnl.bdpnbmpiia”

“Nl.bqptwbyrtwpywobdw?”bjtuwqbJpqv,byrwbdpoupjpsbk.tnblkbkpopyujuid
 swpduo buobruibwnwiab“Nl.bqptwbyrtwpywob_dw_,bJpqv,byrwbRu rbMtuwiyblk
yrwbKspduo b lq?”bPoqbpibrwbimlfwbrwbswpmwqbyleptqbyrwblkkwoquo bdpo,
yrwbipjtukujupsbfoukwbtpuiwqbdwopjuo snbpglxwbruibrwpq,bpoqbv.iybpybyrpy
dldwoybpbsuyyswb tpnbdlofwnbjpdwbjrpyywtuo bpoqbijtwpduo byrtl. rbpo
wdgtpi.twbuobyrwbepssblxwtsllfuo byrwbjl.tyblkbyrwbywdmswa

“YrwbGls pou!bYrwbGls pou!”brwbirtuwfwqab“Yrwnbjldw!bYrwnbjldw!”

JpqvbiylmmwqbpoqberwwswqbyleptqbDpo.,byrwbrpoqbyrpybrwsqbyrwbfoukw
qtlmmuo bpybruibiuqwab“Nl.bipebyrwd,bDpo.?”brwbpifwqab“Nl.bptwbimwpfuo 
yrwbyt.yr?bUkbyruibuibpolyrwtblkbnl.tbytujfibnl.beussbolybsuxwbylbmspn
polyrwtbvlfwb.mlobJpqva”

“Ubimwpfbyrwbyt.yr,”bjrpyywtwqbyrwbsuyyswbdlofwnab“Ubipebyrwdbeuyrbdn
leobwnwia”

“Rlebdponblkbyrwdbptwbyrwtw?”bpifwqbJpqvab“PoqbrlebowptbylbLmptbrpxw
yrwnbjldw?”

“Yrwnbptwbpibdponbpibyrwbswpxwib.mlobyrwbytwwi,”btwmsuwqbDpo.,b“poqbyrwn
ptwbpstwpqnbjsliwbylbyrwbywdmswbepss—yrwbGls poubpoqbyrwb ldpo pou,
yrwnbjldwbpibyrwb tpiiwibyrpyb tlebuobyrwbtpxuowiberwtwbuybuibjllsbpoq
qpdma”

Jpqvby.towqbpoqbtpuiwqbruibkpjwbyleptqbyrwbi.o,bpoqbyrtleuo bgpjfbrui
rwpqb pxwbxlujwbylbpbslo -qtpeobijtwpdbyrpybwoqwqbuobpbmuwtjuo birtuwfa
Yrtwwbyudwibrwbxlujwqbyrwbruqwl.ibjtn,bpoqbyrwobeuyrbpbjlddpoqbylbyrw
lyrwtibuobyrwbjl.tybylbklsslebrudbrwbiyptywqbpybpbgtuifbytlybyleptqbyrw
mpspjwbmtlmwtabPibJpqvbqutwjywqbruibiywmibyleptqbyrwbpojuwoybpxwo.w,
.mloberujrbyrwbmpspjwblkbLmptbkpjwq,byrwtwbuii.wqbktldbwxwtnbjlttuqlt
poqbqlltepnb tl.miblkbyrwbfo.tswqbpoqbrputnbdwoblkbLmpt,bptdwqbeuyr
yrwutbrwpxnbgs.q wloibpoqbyrwutbfouxwiabIjtwpduo bpoqbjrpyywtuo buobyrw
ytwwibpglxwbyrwdbewtwbpbijltwbltbdltwblkbsuyyswb tpnbdlofwnia

“Olybrwtw,”byrwnbjtuwq,b“olybrwtw,”bpoqbmluoywqbyleptqbyrwbil.yrbiuqwblk
yrwbjuyna

Sufwbpob.oquijumsuowqbdlgbyrwbrltqwblkbmtuwiyibpoqbepttultibtwwoywtwq
yrwbmpspjwbpybJpqv’ibrwwsi,bpoqbtwytpjwqbyrwutbiywmibyleptqbyrwblmmliuyw
iuqwblkbyrwbwqukujwabRwtwbyrwnbijtpdgswqbylbyrwbi.dduyblkbyrwbslkynbepss
erujrb .ptqibyrwbmpspjw,bv.iybpibYptcpo’ibkltjwibjpdwbylbpbrpsybl.yiuqwa

“Tljfi!bTljfi!”bijtwpdwqbJpqv,bpoqbuobpoiewtbylbruibjlddpoqibyrwbeldwo
uobyrwbjl.tynptqbgwslebjlddwojwqbylb pyrwtbyrwbslliwbktp dwoyiblkbiylow
yrpybrpqbjt.dgswqbktldbyrwbepssbpoqbktldbyrwbmpspjw,bpoqbylbyliibyrwdb.m
ylbyrwbepttultibpglxwa

“ lbpepn!”bijtwpdwqbJpqvbylbyrwbptdnbl.yiuqwbruib pywiab“ lbpepn!bUbpd
Jpqv,bRu rbMtuwiyblkbyrwbKspduo b lq,bpoqbyruibuibruibywdmswabQwkuswboly
yrwbywdmswblkbyrwbKspduo b lqbltbnl.birpssbfolebruibetpyra”

Yptcpobiywmmwqbklteptqbpbsuyyswbprwpqblkbyrwblyrwti,bpoqbtpuiwqbruibrpoq
kltbiuswojwa

“Sp,bnl.tbRu rbMtuwiywiibpoqbnl.tbz.wwo,buibrwtw,”brwbjtuwqbylbyrw
Lmptupoib.mlobyrwbepssab“JpqvbuibpbytpuyltbpoqbpobudmliyltabLmwobnl.t
 pywibpoqbtwjwuxwbnl.tbz.wwoab uxwb.mbyrwbytpuyltibylbv.iyujw,bpoqbol
rptdbeussbgwkpssbnl.;bg.ybtwk.iwbSpbwoytnbylbrwtbjuynbpoqbewbirpssbypfw
gnbkltjwbpoqbeuyrbgsllqirwqbyrpyberujrbgwslo ibylbSpbtu ryk.ssna”

Pibrwbjwpiwqbimwpfuo bSpbiywmmwqbylbruibiuqwbyrpybpssbrwtbmwlmswbdu ry
iwwbrwt,bpoqbuddwqupywsnbyrwtwbewtwbijpyywtuo bjtuwibkltbSpbpoqbpbxlujw
ltbyelbtpuiwqbp puoiybJpqvabWxuqwoysnbtwpsucuo byrpybuybel.sqbolybypfw
d.jrbylby.tobyrwbijpswbp puoiybrud,bJpqvbirtuwfwqbylbruibdwobylbpyypjf,
poqbiud.sypowl.isnbsp.ojrwqbpbiylowbpybYptcpoabLosnbyrwbeloqtl.ibp usuyn
yrpybrwbmliiwiiwqbipxwqbyrwbpmw-dpo,bpoqbyrwbduiiuswbmpiiwqbgn,bpoq
iytufuo bpb ldpo poublxwtbyrwbrwpty,bkwsswqbrudabUoiypoysnbpbirlewtblk
duiiuswibkwssb.mlobyrwd,bpoqbyrwobYptcpobjpsswqbylbruibklsslewtibyl
jrpt wabTlptuo bpoqb tlesuo ,byrwbGls poubpoqbyrwb ldpo poubswpmwq
klteptqbylbyrwbpyypjfabJpy-sufwbyrwnbtpob.mbyrwbtl. rbepssbuobyrwbkpjw
lkbyrwbdwopjuo bgs.q wloibpglxwabYptcpo,berlbrpqbjrliwobJpqvbpibrui
lgvwjyuxw,bepibpdlo byrwbkutiybylbtwpjrbyrwbi.dduyabPbrputn,bjtllfwq
epttultbiyt.jfbpybrudbeuyrbpbgs.q wlo,bpoqbrpo uo bylbyrwbi.dduyblkbyrw
epssbeuyrblowbrpoq,bYptcpobjp. rybyrwbewpmlobuobyrwblyrwtbpoqbetwiywqbuy
ktldbruibpiipuspoyabPybyrwbipdwbyudwbrwbipebJpqvby.tobpoqbquipmmwptbuoyl
yrwbjl.tynptqbgwnloqabYrwobYptcpobqtwebrudiwskbylbyrwbylmberwtwbrwbepi
uddwqupywsnbwo p wqbgnbyelblyrwtbepttultiblkbLmptabEuyrbyrwbewpmlobrw
rpqbetwiywqbktldbyrwutbkwsslebrwbfoljfwqbyrwdbylbtu rybpoqbswky,bil
 twpybpobpqxpoyp wbruib twpybrwu rybpoqbiytwo yrb pxwbrudblxwtbyrwd,bpoq
yrwo,btwdwdgwtuo blosnbyrpybJpqv,berlbepibyrwbtuo swpqwtblkbyrwbtwxlsy
p puoiybSp,bd.iybolybgwbmwtduyywqbylbwijpmwbYptcpobswpmwqbylbyrw
mpxwdwoybgwslebv.iybpibyrwbRu rbMtuwiybquipmmwptwqbyrtl. rbpobptjrepnbpy
yrwblmmliuywbwoqblkbyrwbjl.tynptqa

Ildwbmtuwiyibpoqbmtuwiywiiwibil. rybylbudmwqwbruibmtl twiiabIwucuo blow
lkbyrwbkltdwtbgnbyrwbpofswibrwbie.o byrwbglqnbuobjutjswibpgl.ybrud,
jswptuo bruibleobmpyrepnbpibrwbtpobkltbyrwblmmliuywbwoqblkbyrw
jl.tynptq,bpoqbyrwtwbrwbrpsywqbpoqberwwswqbpoqbm.yyuo bpssbyrwbiytwo yr
lkbruib twpybd.ijswibuoylbyrwbwkklty,brwbie.o byrwbglqnblkbyrwbmtuwiy
lojwbdltwbpoqbr.tswqbuybgpjfbuoylbyrwbkpjwiblkbruibm.ti.wtia

Euyrl.ybepuyuo bylbolywbyrwbwkkwjyblkbruibpjybrwby.towqbp puobpoq
jloyuo.wqbuobm.ti.uyblkbJpqvabYrwbkwsslebfwmybpsepnibv.iybprwpqblkbrud,
gwjp.iwbJpqvbfowebruibepnbyrtl. rbyrwbspgntuoyrupobdpcwiblkbyrwbmpspjw
poqbywdmswbpoqbjl.tynptqibgwyywtbyrpobYptcpoabYrpybyrwbytpusbepibswpquo 
yleptqbyrwbuoowtbjl.tyiblkbyrwbywdmswbYptcpobepibjloxuojwqabYrwtwbJpqv
el.sqbkuoqbwpinbuo twiibylbyrwbmuyibgwowpyrbyrwbmpspjwbpoqbpbruquo 
mspjwbktldberujrbuybel.sqbgwbqukkuj.sybylbquislq wbrud,bilbo.dwtl.ibpoq
euoquo bewtwbyrwbqptfbi.gywttpowpoby.oowsiabPoqbilbYptcpobm.ybkltyr
wxwtnbwkkltybylbtwpjrbyrwbipjtukujupsbjl.tybuobyudwbylbmtwxwoybJpqvbktld
 puouo byrwbjldmptpyuxwbipkwynblkbyrwb.oqwt tl.oqbmpiip wi;bg.ybpibrw
kuopssnbswpmwqbyrtl. rbyrwbqlltepnbuoylbyrwbjl.ty,bpbolliw,bj.oouo sn
spuq,bjsliwqbpgl.yblowblkbruibpofswibpoqbrwbepibr.tswqbrwpxusnbylbyrw
 tl.oqabPsdliybuoiypoysnbpbo.dgwtblkbyrwbjtllfwqbsuyyswbdwoblkbLmpt
swpmwqb.mlobrud,berwtwbrwbspn,brpsk-iy.oowqbgnbyrwbkpss,bpoqbgwkltwbrw
rpqbk.ssnbtw puowqbruibkpj.syuwibyrwnbrpqbyt.iiwqbrudbiwj.twsna

Losnbpgl.ybrpskbjloijul.i,brwbkwsybyrwdbtpuiwbrudbktldbyrwb tl.oqbpoq
jpttnbrud,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbrwbepibqwmliuywqb.mlobpbjlsqbiylowbi.tkpjwa
Yrwobuybepibyrpybk.ssbjloijul.iowiibtwy.towqbylbrud,bpoqbrwbtwpsucwq
yrpybrwbspnbl.yiytwyjrwqblojwbdltwb.mlobyrwbipjtukujupsbpsyptblkbyrw
uoowtbjl.tyblkbyrwbYwdmswblkbyrwbKspduo b lqbpoqbpglxwbrudbiyllqbJpqv,
yrwbRu rbMtuwiy,bruibjt.wsbkpjwbjloyltywqbuobpb tudpjwblkbrpywbpoqbyrw
poyujumpyuloblkbtwxwo wbslo bqwkwttwqa

“Pybspiy!”b slpywqbyrwbjtwpy.twblkbrpywab“Yruibyudw,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,
nl.birpssbfolebyrwbk.tnbolyblkbyrwbKspduo b lq,bg.yblkbJpqv,byrwbdpo;
oltbirpssbyrwtwbgwbponbepuyboltbponbuoywtkwtwojwa”

Rwbie.o byrwbipjtukujupsbfoukwbru rbpglxwbruibrwpqabGwnloqbyrwbmluoyblk
yrwbfoukwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibipebyrwbi.dduyblkbyrwbjl.tynptqbepss,bpoq
v.iybi.tdl.oyuo buybyrwbrwpqbpoqbirl.sqwtiblkbpbdu ryn,bgspjf-dpowq
suloa

“Vpq-gps-vp!”brwbjtuwqab“Fuss!bFuss!”

Jpqvbrwiuypywq,bruibfoukwbmluiwqblobru rabRwbipebyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrw
pmw-dpo’ibwnwibpoqbklsslewqbyrwd,bpoqbuobyrpybuoiypoybyrwb lsqwobsulo
swpmwqbylbyrwbmpxwdwoy,bpoqbeuyrbyelbdu rynbgl.oqibepib.mlobyrwbRu r
MtuwiyblkbLmptabYrwbfoukwbjspyywtwqbylbyrwbkslltbpoqbyrwb twpybvpei
jsliwqb.mlobyrwbrlttuqbkpjwa

YrwbswiiwtbmtuwiyiberlbrpqbiwucwqbYptcpo,bpoqberlbrpqbtwdpuowqbyl
euyowiibruibqwpyrbpybyrwbrpoqiblkbJpqv,brpqbkswqbijtwpduo bktldbyrw
jl.tybyrwbuoiypoybyrpybyrwb lsqwobsulobrpqbswpmwqb.mlobyrwutbdpiywt,bpoq
olebYptcpobpoqbVpq-gps-vpbpoqbyrwbjltmiwblkbJpqvbewtwbyrwbilswbljj.mpoyi
lkbyrwbipjtukujupsbjl.tynptqblkbyrwbywdmswa

“Jldw,bVpq-gps-vp,”bjlddpoqwqbYptcpo;b“swybolblowbrptdbYptcpoblkbyrw
Pmwia”

Pobrl.tbspywtbyrwbxujyltul.ibkltjwiblkbSpbewtwblxwtt.oouo byrwbpojuwoy
mpspjwbpoqbywdmswiblkbLmptabYrwbmtuwiyibpoqbepttultiberlbrpqbolybgwwo
fusswqbrpqbz.ujfsnbi.ttwoqwtwqbpoqbpjfoleswq wqbSpbpibyrwutbz.wwobpoq
Ru rbMtuwiywii,bpoqbolebpybSp’ibjlddpoqbyrwbjuynbepibgwuo biwptjrwqbklt
YptcpobpoqbJpqvabUybepibyr.ibyrpybSp,brwtiwsk,bswpquo bpbiwptjruo 
mptyn,bwoywtwqbyrwbipjtukujupsbjl.tynptqa

Yrwbiu rybyrpybdwybrwtbwnwibgtl. rybrwtbylbpbi.qqwobrpsy,bkltbyrwtw,
gl.oqb.mlobyrwbpsypt,bspnbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bpoqbiypoquo bpglxwbrud,
ruibioptsuo bkpjwbpoqb swpduo bwnwib sptuo bqutwjysnbpybrwtbepi
Vpq-gps-vp,byrwb lsqwobsuloa

“Yptcpo!”birtuwfwqbSp,bypfuo bpbiywmbyleptqbyrwbpsyptab“Jpqvbrpibrpqbrui
epnbpybspiyab lqblkbdnbkpyrwtibrpxwbmuynblobdw—Yptcpobuibqwpqa”

“Ol,”bjtuwqbyrwbpmw-dpo;b“kptbktldbqwpqabJldwbpoqbtwswpiwbdwabUbpdblosn
gl.oq,bg.ybrpqbuybolybgwwobkltbVpq-gps-vpbUbrpqbgwwobqwpqbgwowpyrbnl.t
ipjtukujupsbfoukwa”

“Yrpofb lq,”bjtuwqbSp,bpoqbiyptywqbylbpmmtlpjrbyrwbpsypt,bg.ybmp.iwq
gwkltwbyrwbdwopjuo bpyyuy.qwblkbyrwb tlesuo bsuloa

“Qleo!”bjtuwqbYptcpo,b“swybrwtbpmmtlpjr;”bpoqbVpq-gps-vpbspnbqleobgwiuqw
ruibdpiywtbpoqbiytwyjrwqbruiberuifwtwqbjruobpjtliibyrwbpmw-dpo’ibgtwpiya

Spbjpdwbyrwo,bpoqbmujfuo b.mbyrwbipjtukujupsbfoukw,bj.ybyrwbgloqibyrpy
rwsqbyrwbsltqblkbyrwbv.o swbjpmyuxw,bpoqbyrwobirwbipebgwnloqbyrwbpsypt
yrwbjltmiwblkbJpqva

“Nl.tbeltiybwowdnbuibqwpq,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“poqbkltbruibqwpyrbnl.bdpn
yrpofbVpq-gps-vp,bpibUbyrpofbrudbkltbdnbsukwabNl.birl.sqbt.swbolebuo
mwpjwbpoqbrpmmuowiibpoqbuobktuwoqirumbeuyrbyrwbmwlmswblkbyrwbXpsswnblk
yrwbMpspjwblkbQupdloqia”

Yrpybou rybYptcpobpoqbyrwbGls poubpoqbyrwbrwpq-dwoblkbyrwb ldpo pou,bpoq
yrwbmtuwiyibpoqbmtuwiywiiwiblkbLmpt,bipybuobyrwb twpybgpoz.wybrpssblk
yrwbMpspjwblkbLmpt,bpibyrwb .wiyiblkbSp,byrwbz.wwo,bpoqbpywbktldbyrw
 lsqwobmspyywtiblkbyrwbpojuwoybPyspoyupoi—mspyywtibyrpybrpqbgwwo
kpirulowqblobpbjloyuowoybyrpybwhuiyibylqpnblosnbuobyrwbsw woqiblk
poyuz.uynabPoqbyrwbklssleuo bdltouo bYptcpobpoqbVpq-gps-vpbiwybkltyr
.mlobyrwutbtwy.tobvl.townbylbyrwbspoqblkbyrwbEpcutubpoqbrldwa




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHXUU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbYLTY.TWbLKbKUTW


KSLTPbRPEFWIbpoqbrwtbkl.tbjlokwqwtpywi,bm.ti.wqbgnbS.xuoubpoqbruibyel
r.oqtwqbepttulti,biy.dgswqbyrtl. rbyrwbqptfowiiblkbyrwbv.o swbou rya
Yrwnbrpqbolblgvwjyuxw,bklt,b .uqwqbwoyutwsnbpibyrwnbrpqbgwwobgnbyrw
gspjfi,byrwnbfowebolyberwtwbyrwnbewtwbpoqbewtwbjldmswywsnbsliyabYrwbilsw
uqwpbqlduopyuo byrwbduoqblkbwpjrbepibylbm.ybpibd.jrbquiypojwbgwyewwo
yrwdiwsxwibpoqbyrwbjpdmblkbyrwbuxltnbtpuqwtibpibmliiugsw,bkltbolbdpyywt
erpybyrwbl.yjldwblkbyrwbgpyyswbyrwtwbdu rybrpxwbgwwo,byrwutbkpywbel.sq
gwbyrwbipdwbirl.sqbyrwbxujyltul.ibmptynbjpmy.twbyrwdabYrwnbrpqbiy.dgswq
lobkltbmwtrpmibrpskbpobrl.tberwo,bq.tuo bpbdldwoyptnbtwiy,byrwnbrwptq
mspuosnbgwruoqbyrwdbyrwbil.oqblkbm.ti.uy,bpoqbp puobyrwnbms.o wqblobuo
yrwutbpudswiibksu ryblkbywttlta

Mtwiwoysn,bylbyrwutbi.tmtuiw,byrwnbquijwtowqbyrwb sleblkbpbsu rybprwpqa
Erpybjl.sqbuybgw?bRpqbyrwnbdpqwbpbjldmswywbjutjsw,bpoqbepibyruibp puo
yrwbjpdmbyrwnbrpqbgwwobkswwuo ?bYrwnbm.irwqblobylbtwjlooluywt,b.oyusbpy
spiybyrwnbipebgwkltwbyrwdbyrwbl.ysuowiblkbpbjpdmbi.ttl.oqwqbgnbpbyrlto
gldp,buobyrwbjwoywtblkberujrbepibg.touo bpbidpssbjpdm-kutwabPgl.ybyrw
kutwbewtwbjlo tw pywqbrpsk-p-r.oqtwqbgspjfbepttulti,bpoqbpibyrw
k. uyuxwibjtwmybjsliwtbyrwnbipebpdlo byrwbgspjfibpbku .twbiypoquo bl.y
jswptsnbuobyrwbsu ryblkbyrwbjpdm-kutw—pberuywbeldpo—poqbgwruoqbyrwd
tliwbsl.qwtbpoqbsl.qwtbyrwbil.oqblkbm.ti.uya

Ktldbyrwb wiy.twibpoqb wiyuj.spyuloiblkbyrwbgspjfibptl.oqbyrwbjpdm-kutw
uybepibwxuqwoybyrpybyrwnbewtwbquij.iiuo byrwbil.oqiblkbyrwbgpyyswbyrwn
rpqbtwjwoysnbrwptqbuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbtpuqwti’bjpdm,bkltbyrwnblkywo
mluoywqbuobyrpybqutwjyulo,bpoqbolebyrwbeldpobtpuiwqbrwtbrpoqbkltbiuswojw
poqbyrwnbpssbsuiywowq,bpoqbuybepibwxuqwoybyrpybyrwn,byll,brwptqbyrw
jlduo blkbyrwbepttultiberlbewtwbm.ti.uo bKsltpbRpefwibpoqbrwt
jlokwqwtpywia

“Yrwtwbuibpberuywbeldpobyrwtw,”bipuqbKsltpbylbyrwblyrwtiab“Ewbqlboly
foleberlbirwbui,bg.ybirwbuibl.tblosnbrlmw,bkltbyrliwberlbptwbm.ti.uo b.i
eussblxwtypfwb.ibz.ujfsnabMwtrpmibyruibeldpobeussbmtlywjyb.iabJldw,bUbpd
 luo bylbkuoqbl.y;”bpoqbeuyrl.ybepuyuo bkltbpobpoiewtbirwbepsfwqbglsqsn
yleptqbyrwbgldpa

Yrwnbrpqbjldwbg.ybpbirltybquiypojwberwobyrwbfwwobwnwiblkbyrwbEpcutu
quijlxwtwqbyrwd,bpoqbuoiypoysnbyrwbgldpbepssbepibtuo wqbeuyrbgtuiysuo 
imwptia

“Iylm!”bjtuwqblowblkbyrwbepttultiab“EwbptwbyrwbEpcutublkbYptcpoabErlbptw
nl.?”

“UbpdbpobWo suireldpo,”bjpsswqbKsltpbuobtwmsnab“Ubpoqbdnbjldmpouloibptw
sliybuobyrwbv.o swabEwbrpxwbgwwobgwytpnwqbgnbl.tbipkptu—l.tbrwpq-dpobui
m.ti.uo b.ibolebeuyrbepttultiabYrwtwbptwbg.ybkuxwblkb.ibpoqbewbpifbnl.t
mtlywjyuloa”

“Swybyrwdbjldw,”bipuqbVpowbylbyrwbEpcutua

PibKsltpbRpefwibpoqbyrwbkl.tbdwobwoywtwqbyrwbgldpbgwowpyrbyrwbijt.yuon
lkbVpowbJspnylobpoqbyrwbEpcutu,bpolyrwtbmputblkbwnwibepyjrwqbktldbyrw
klsup wblkbyrwb twpybytwwbyrpyblxwtr.o byrwbjpdmb.mlobyrwblmmliuyw
iuqw— tpnbwnwibylberujrbpbiytpo wbsu rybjpdwbpibyrwnbtwjl oucwqbyrw
 utsbpoqbrwtbjldmpouloia

PibyrwbowejldwtibpmmtlpjrwqbSpqnb twniylfwbyrwbspyywtb pxwbpo
whjspdpyuloblkbi.tmtuiwab“Ksltp!”birwbwhjspudwq,buobpiylouirdwoyab“Ksltp
Rpefwi,berpybuobyrwbeltsqbptwbnl.bqluo brwtw?”

Yrwb uts,biyptyswqbyll,bjpdwbylbpbk.ssbiylmab“Spqnb twniylfw!”birw
wvpj.spywqa

“Ubqlbolyb.oqwtiypoq,”bjloyuo.wqbSpqnb twniylfwab“Ubquqbolybfolebyrpy
nl.bewtwbuobPktujpa”

Kltbpbdldwoybyrwb sugbKsltpbepiblxwtjldwbgnbjloiywtopyulo,bg.ybmtwiwoysn
rwtbopyuxwbeuybjpdwbylbrwtbpiiuiypojwab“UbpdbrwtwbeuyrbDtabGs.gwtbpoq
ruibktuwoqi,”birwbipuq,b“erlbjpdwbylbdpfwbijuwoyukujbtwiwptjrwi,bpoq
gtl. rybdwbpslo bgwjp.iwbUbrpqbgwwobylbPktujpbeuyrbnl.bpoqbSltq
 twniylfw,bpoqbfowebildwyruo blkbyrwbdpoowtibpoqbj.iyldiblkbyrwbjl.oytn,
poqbolebl.tbglnibrpxwby.towqbp puoiyb.ibpoqb.oswiibnl.bjpobrwsmb.ibew
ptwbsliya”

“Ptwbyrwnbewiybjlpiybglni?”bpifwqbVpowa

“Nwi,”btwmsuwqbKsltpa

“UbyruofbdnbEpcutubjpobrpoqswbyrwdabRlebdponblkbyrwdbptwbyrwtw?”

“Pgl.ybyelbr.oqtwq,”bipuqbFtpifua

Spqnb twniylfwbirllfbrwtbrwpqab“Yrwblqqibptwbmtwyynbrwpxn,”birw
jlddwoywq,bpoqbyrwobirwbjpsswqbylb.i.sp,berlbepibuobjrpt wab“Yrwtwbptw
yelbr.oqtwqbewiybjlpiybglnibjlduo bpkywtbyrwiwbmwlmsw,”birwbipuq;b“ew
irpssbrpxwbylbku rybylbqwkwoqbyrwda”

“EwbptwbEpcutu,”btwmsuwqb.i.sp,biudmsn,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbyrwbxpoblk
S.xuou’ibkltjwibgtlfwbuoylbxuwebpybyrwbl.ywtbtudblkbyrwbjpdm-kutw’i
twpjra

Pybiu ryblkbyrwb suiywouo bepttultibtwpqnbylbtwjwuxwbyrwdbyrwbewiybjlpiy
glnibrpsywqabS.xuou,bypfuo buobyrwbuokwtultbo.dgwtiblkbyrwbwowdnbpybp
 spojw,biywmmwqbklteptqbpbkwebmpjwibprwpqblkbruibdwobpoqbjlddwojwqbyl
irl.ybyp.oyibpoqbuoi.syi,bqwdpoquo byrwbtwy.toblkbyrwberuywibylbrudabRw
pjjldmpouwqbruibeltqibeuyrbkpoypiyujbpoqb tlywiz.wbiywmi,bpybyrwbipdw
yudwbepxuo bruibtukswbpoqbirpfuo bruibkuiyabMtwiwoysnbruibklsslewtibyllf
.mbyrwbtwktpuob.oyusbyrwberlswbgpoqblkbyelbr.oqtwqbepibirtuwfuo bpoq
nwssuo bpoqbyrtwpywouo ,byrwberuswbyrwnbswpmwqb.mbpoqbqleobpibyrwn
eltfwqbyrwdiwsxwibuoylbpbktwocnblkbwhjuywdwoybyrpybel.sqbudmptybylbyrwd
yrwbjl.tp wbowjwiiptnbkltbyrwbuouyupyuo blkbpbjrpt wa

YrwbEpcutu,bgwruoqbyrwbgldpbepss,bijrllswqbpoqbquijumsuowqbgnbYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwi,brpqbslo biuojwbquijptqwqbyrwbkpoypiyujblxwty.twbylbgpyyswbil
qwptbylbyrwbrwptyiblkblyrwtbeptsufwbytugwibpoq,buoiywpq,biyllqbiylsuq
poqb tudbpepuyuo byrwbjlduo blkbyrwbklwa

“Yrwnbrpxwbpbo.dgwtblkbtukswi,”bjlddwoywqbSpqnb twniylfw;b“yrpybsllfi
tpyrwtbgpqbkltb.ia”

“Yrwtwbptwbolyblxwtbrpsk-p-qlcwoberlbjpobruybponyruo beuyrbyrwut
tukswi,”bipuqbFtpifua

“Nl.bdwobptwbpssbptdwqabYpfwbnl.tbmspjwibpdlo bdnbEpcutuabEptobnl.tbdwo
ylb lbpepnbpoqbswpxwb.ibpslowabQlbolybkutwb.oyusbyrwnbpyypjf,bg.ybpybyrw
kutiyblxwtybpjy,bjlddwojwbkutuo ,bpoqbfwwmbuyb.m—yrwtwbuibolyruo byrpy
ilbquijl.tp wibpbewiybjlpiybgspjfbpibyrwbtukswbkutwblkberuywbdwoabKsltp
poqbUbeussbtwdpuobpybyrwbgpjfblkbyrwbjpdm,bowptbyrpybspt wbytwwa”bIrw
imlfwbp.yrltuypyuxwsn,bpiblowberlbuibpjj.iyldwqbylbjlddpoqbpoqbfolei
erwtwlkbirwbimwpfiabYrwbdwoblgwnwqbrwt;bwxwobGs.gwt,byrl. rbrwbytwdgswq
muyupgsnbpibrwbdlxwqbklteptqbylbypfwbruibmspjwbuobyrwbktloybtpofibpdlo 
yrwbEpcutua

Yrwutbdlxwdwoyi,buobyrwbsu ryblkbyrwbjpdm-kutw,bewtwbpssbmspuosn
quijwtougswbylbS.xuou,bpoqbpsilbylbyrpyblyrwtberlbepyjrwqbktldbyrw
klsup wblkbyrwbytwwbgwowpyrberujrbVpowbJspnylobpoqbKsltpbRpefwibyllf
twk. wabS.xuoubrpqbolybjldwbylbku ryabRwbrpqbjldwbylbjpmy.twbKsltp
RpefwiabRwby.towqbylbruibdwoab“Yrwtwbptwblosnbkukynblkbyrwd,”brwbipuqa
“Ewbjpobfussbyrwdbwpiusn,bg.ybewbquqbolybjldwbylbdpfwbeptabEwbjpdwbyl
 wybyrwberuywb utsbgpjfbp puoabIypnbrwtwbpoqbdpfwbpb twpybirlebp puoiy
yrliwbiloiblkbvpjfpsiabFwwmbyrwdbpsepnibsllfuo bpybnl.abPqxpojwbpbsuyysw
poqbyrwobkpssbgpjfbp puo,bpoqberuswbnl.bptwbyr.ibfwwmuo byrwutbpyywoyulo
pyytpjywqbuobyruibqutwjyulobUbeussbypfwbkukynbdwobpoqb lbylbyrwbtwptblk
yrwutbjpdmbpoqb wybyrwberuywb uts,bpoqberwobUbrpxwbrwtbUbeussbiwoqbeltq
ylbnl.bpoqbuddwqupywsnbnl.bjpobtwy.tobylbyrwbxussp w,berwtw,bgwruoqbyrw
mpsuipqw,bewbirpssbgwbipkwbp puoiybpyypjfa”

Olebyruibmspobewssbi.uywqbyrwbewiybjlpiybgspjfi,berlbrpqbolbiyldpjrbklt
yrwbgpyyswbsllduo bilbudduowoy,bpoqbilbyrwnbqpojwqbpoqbnwsswqbpoq
dwopjwqbdltwbxljukwtl.isnbyrpobgwkltw,bkltbyrwnbkwsybyrwnbewtwbqluo buy
pssbeuyrbmwtkwjybudm.ouyn,biuojwbmtwiwoysnbyrwnbirl.sqbtwyutw,bpkywtbp
gsllqswiibxujyltn,bylbyrwbipkwynblkbyrwutbmpsuipqwa

PibS.xuou,bdpfuo bpbqwyl.t,bjtwmybyrtl. rbyrwbjlojwpsdwoyblkbyrwbqwoiw
v.o swibylbyrwbtwptblkbyrwbjpdmberuswbyrwbquoblkbyrwbewiybjlpiybgspjfi
ptliwbylbpsdliybqwpkwouo bmtlmltyuloi,byrwtwbqtlmmwqbi.qqwosnbylbyrw
 tl.oqbgwkltwbyrwbyelberuywbeldwobktldbyrwbytwwbpglxwbyrwd,byrwbku .tw
lkbpberuywb upoy,bopfwqbwhjwmybkltbsluobjslyrbpoqbswlmptqbifuo—rui
 lqsufwbjloyl.tbmujfwqbl.ybgnbyrwbksujfwtuo bsu ryblkbyrwbgwpiybkutwa

“Vlro!”bwhjspudwqbSpqnb twniylfwab“Yrpofb lqbuybuibnl.a”

“I-i-ir!”bjp.yulowqbyrwberuywb upoy,bmspjuo bpbkltwkuo wtbylbruibsumi,
poqbyrwobi.qqwosnbrwberwwswqb.mlobKsltpbRpefwiab“Uybuibnl.bUbepoy,”brw
jtuwq,bpoqbiwucuo byrwb utsbrwbyrtwebrwtbsu rysnbpjtliibruibirl.sqwti,
poqbgwkltwbSpqnb twniylfwbjl.sqbuoywtkwtw—gwkltwbirwbrpsk-twpsucwqberpy
rpqbljj.ttwq—rwbrpqbsu rysnbswpmwqbyrwbmtlywjyuo bgldpbuobyrwbtwptblk
yrwbjpdmbpoqbquipmmwptwqbuoylbyrwbv.o swbgwnloqa

KltbpbdldwoybVpowbJspnylobiyllqbtwwsuo bpiblowbiy.oowqbgnbpob.owhmwjywq
gsle,bpoqbyrwo,beuyrbpbiyukswqbdlpo,birwbipofbilgguo bylbyrwb tl.oq,brwt
kpjwbg.tuwqbuobrwtbptdia

Uybepibyr.ibyrpybS.xuoubpoqbruibepttultibkl.oqbrwtbpibyrwnbjtwmy
iywpsyrusnblxwtbyrwbgldpbpoqbuoylbyrwbjpdmbuobyrwbtwptblkbyrwbqwkwoqwti
.mlobyrwblmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrwbgwpiybkutwabYrwnbrpqbjldwbkltbpberuyw
eldpobpoqbyrwnbrpqbkl.oqblow,bpoqbtl. rsnbqtp  uo brwtbylbrwtbkwwy,
idlyrwtuo brwtbjtuwibeuyrbtl. rbpoqbkusyrnbmpsdi,byrwnbgltwbrwtbl.ybuoyl
yrwbv.o swbyleptqbyrwbmpsuipqwqbxussp wblkbyrwbuxltnbtpuqwtia

Ywobduo.ywibspywtbyrwberuywbdwobpoqbyrwbEpcutubipebyrwbewiybjlpiybgspjfi
twyutwbislesnbuoylbyrwbv.o sw,biyussbnwssuo bpoqbyrtwpywouo ,bpibyrl. r
gwoyblobyrwbylypsbpoouruspyuloblkbyrwutbwowduwi—yrwbgpyyswbepiblxwt
euyrl.ybpbirlybkutwqbltbpbimwptbr.tswqa

“Gsudw,”bipuqbYrtljf,b“erpybepibpssbyrwbgsllduo’bk.iibpgl.ybponrle?”

“Rubyrl. rybyrwnbepib luo’bylbrwpybr.ibr.m,bpo’byrwbgsu rywtibowxwtbqlow
olyruo’bg.ybnwss,bpo’b’wtwbewbptw,b’obyrpy’ibyrpya”

YrwbVwebiewsswqbl.ybruibjrwiyab“Uybypfwibdltwbpibpbg.ojrblkbou  wtibyl
gs.kkbPqlsmrbGs.gwt,”brwbipuqbmldml.isna

Ftpifubsllfwqbpkywtbyrwbqwmptyuo bgspjfi,bpoqbyrwo,bijtpyjruo bruibrwpq,
y.towqbgpjfbyleptqbyrwbjpdm-kutwab“Ubjpo’yb.oqwtiypoqbuy,”brwbipuq,bpoq
yrwo,bi.qqwosn,b“ErwtwbptwbKsltpbpoqbSpqnb twniylfw?”

Uybepibyrwobyrpybyrwnbquijlxwtwqbyrpybyrwbyelbeldwobewtwbduiiuo a

YrwbEpcutubewtwbktpoyujabYrwnbjpsswqbyrwbopdwblkbyrwutbduiytwiibpsl.q,
g.ybyrwtwbepibolbtwmsnab“Jldw!”bjtuwqb.i.sp,b“ew,byrwbEpcutu,birpss
ku ry,bpkywtbpss,”bpoqbt.oouo bylbyrwbgldpbrwbswpmwqbuy,bpoq,bklsslewq
gnbruibkukynbgspjfi,biwybl.ybuobm.ti.uyblkbyrwbewiybjlpiybglnia

Uybepibg.ybpbdldwoybltbyelbgwkltwbyrwnblxwtyllfbyrwd,bpoqbyrpyberujr
woi.wqbtwiwdgswqbdltwbpbtl.ybyrpobpbgpyyswabKswwuo buobywttltbyleptq
yrwutbmpsuipqwbeuyrbyrwbEpcutubpybyrwutbrwwsibyrwbewiybjlpiybgspjfi
yrtwebpepnbyrwutbtukswibyrpybyrwnbdu rybt.obyrwbkpiywt,bg.ybS.xuoubpoq
ruibmptynbrpqbrpqbi.kkujuwoybiyptybilbyrpybyrwnbewtwbpgswbylbtwpjrbyrw
xussp wbpoqb puobyrwbipkwynblkbyrwbmpsuipqwbgwkltwbm.ti.wqbpoqbm.ti.wti
twpjrwqbuyabLojwbuoiuqwbyrwb pywbyrwbqwkwoqwtibdpqwbpbiypoqbkltbyrwn
twpsucwqbyrpybukbyrwbEpcutubwoywtwqbyrwnbirl.sqbpssbgwbdpiipjtwq,bpoqbil
yrwnbkl. rybpibpbjltowtwqbtpybeussbku ry,beuyrbyrwbtwi.sybyrpybyrwn
dpop wqbylbrlsqblkkbyrwbpyypjfwtib.oyusbyrwnbjl.sqbjsliwbpoqbgptbyrw
 pywabG.usybpibuybrpqbgwwobpibpbqwkwoiwbp puoiybkptb twpywtbo.dgwtibyrw
xussp wbepibwpinbylbqwkwoq,bkltbyrwtwbewtwbswiibyrpobkukynbEpcutubole,
poqbowptsnbyelbr.oqtwqbku ryuo bdwobeuyruobyrwbxussp wbylbqwkwoqbuy
p puoiybyrwda

Twpsucuo byrwbk.yusuynblkbgsuoqbpyypjfb.i.spbeuyrqtwebruibkltjwibpbirlty
quiypojwbktldbyrwbmpsuipqw,bpoqbyrwtwbyrwnbiz.pyywq,byrwutbkuwtjw,
ijlesuo bkpjwib sptuo bpybyrwb pywepnberuswb.i.spbmloqwtwqbijrwdwibklt
l.yeuyyuo byrwbwowdn,berujrbrwbtwpsucwqbrwbjl.sqbolyblxwtjldwbgnbkltjw
pslowa

“UybuiblosnbSpqnb twniylfwbyrpybewbepoy,”brwbipuq;b“xwo wpojwbjpobepuy
.oyusbpolyrwtbqpna”

“G.ybewbqlbolybwxwobfolebyrpybirwbuibeuyruobyrwbxussp w,”btwduoqwqblow
lkbruibdwoa

“Erwtwbwsiwbjl.sqbirwbgw,byrwo?”bpifwqb.i.spab“Uybuibyt.wbyrpybnl.bdpn
gwbtu ry—irwbdpnbolybgwbeuyruobyrwbxussp w,bg.ybyrpybUbuoywoqbylbkuoq
l.yabUbrpxwbpbmspoabIww;byrwbeuoqbuibktldbyrwblmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrw
xussp wabYwoblkbnl.beussbpjjldmponbdw,byrwblyrwtibeussbpqxpojwbp puo
gwkltwbyrwb pywbpoqbdpfwbd.jrboluiw,bpoqbmtwywoqbyrpybnl.bptwbpgl.ybyl
pyypjfabPkywtbperuswbyrwb pywbeussblmwobpoqbyrwnbeussbjldwbl.yabYrpybU
mtlduiwbnl.abUbeussbytnbylbgwbrwtwbgwkltwbyrpybrpmmwoi,bg.ybukbUbpdboly,
quxuqwbuoylbyelbmptyuwibpoqbiypoqb.mlobwuyrwtbiuqwblkbyrwb pywepnbpoq
swybyrwbewiybjlpiybgspjfibwijpmw;bewbqlbolybjptwbkltbyrwdabEpyjrblosn
kltbSpqnb twniylfw,bpoqberwobnl.biwwbrwtbypfwbrwtbpepnbktldbyrliwberl
 .ptqbrwtabQlbnl.b.oqwtiypoq?”bRuibjldmpouloibolqqwqab“Yrwobjldw,”brw
ipuq,bpoqbiwswjyuo bywobdwobquipmmwptwqbuoylbyrwbv.o swa

S.xuoubrpqbjpttuwqbVpowbJspnylobylbpbr.ybolybkptbktldbyrwb pywepnbylbyrw
xussp wabRwtwbrwbrpqbgl.oqbrwtbiwj.twsnbpoqbyuwqbrwtbylbpbiypfw,biyuss
gwsuwxuo byrpybirwbepibKsltpbRpefwi,bpoqbyrwobrwbrpqbswkybrwtbylbr.ttn
gpjfbyleptqbyrwb pywbyrpybrwbdu rybypfwbjlddpoqblkbruibkltjwibuobqwkwoiw
lkbyrwbxussp wa

Ilbtpmuqsnbrpqbyrwbwxwoyiblkbyrwbmpiybrl.tbytpoimutwqbyrpybVpowbJspnylo
epibiyussbrpskbqpcwqbktldbyrwbiwtuwiblkbirljfibyrpybirwbrpqbgwwobjpsswq
.mlobylbwoq.twabQeptkuo bylbolyruo owiibyrwbdwopjwblkbrwtbmtwiwoy
mliuyulobepibyrwbtwdwdgtpojwbyrpybrwtbYptcpobrpqbqwiwtywqbrwtbuobrwt
rl.tblkbowwq,bpoqbjpttuwqblkkbuoylbyrwbv.o swbpolyrwtbeldpoabOlybwxwo
yrwbtwdwdgtpojwblkberpyb.i.spbrpqbylsqbrwtbjlojwtouo byrwbpjjuqwoybyrpy
Yptcpobrpqbi.iypuowq,bpoqberujrbrpqbi.mmliwqsnbp puobpkkwjywqbrui
dwdltn,bjl.sqbtwjlojuswbrwtbylbyrwbgt.ypsuynblkbruibqwiwtyulo,bpoqbole
irwbspn,bkpjwbqleo,buobyrwbkusyrblkbyrwbPtpgbr.y,bilgguo bpibirwbrpqboly
kltbdponbnwptia

Pibirwbspnbyrwtwbyltobgnb tuwk,b.i.spbpoqbruibywobjtwmybiywpsyrusnbpoq
iuswoysnbptl.oqbyrwbl.yiuqwblkbyrwbmpsuipqwbylbyrwbtwptblkbyrwbxussp wa
Rwtwbyrwnbkl.oqb twpybz.poyuyuwiblkbqwpqbgt.irbswkybktldbyrwbjswptuo 
erujrbyrwbPtpgibrpqbdpqwberwobjloiyt.jyuo byrwutbxussp wabYruibyrwn
gtl. rybpoqbmuswqbpslo byrwbmpsuipqw,bjsliwbp puoiybuy,b.oyusbowptsn
yrtww-z.ptywtiblkbyrwbmpsuipqwb.mlobyrpybiuqwblkbyrwbxussp wbepibgpofwq
ru rbeuyrbuyabKuoquo byrpybuybepibqukkuj.sybylbmtliwj.ywbyrwutbeltfbuo
iuswojw,b.i.spbqwimpyjrwqblowblkbruibdwobylbyrwbdpuobglqnb.mlobyrw
lmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrwbxussp w,beuyrbuoiyt.jyuloibyrpybyrwnbewtwbylbfwwm
.mbpbjloyuo.l.ibquoblkbirl.yuo bylbqtleobyrwbil.oqblkbyrwblmwtpyuloiblk
yrwutbkwssleiabYrwbmspobeltfwqbylbmwtkwjyulo,bnwybwxwobyrl. rbuy
mwtduyywqb.i.spbpoqbruibjldmpouloibylbspgltbeuyrbtwql.gswqbwkkltyi,buy
epibdltwbyrpobpobrl.tbgwkltwbyrwbgt.irbmuswbepibquimliwqbylbrui
ipyuikpjyuloa

S.xuou,bktldbpobpmwty.twbuobyrwbmpsuipqw,bepyjrwqbyrwbdpuobglqnblkbyrw
Epcutuberlbewtwbolebtwxwpswqbgnbyrwbtuiuo blkbyrwbdllo,bpoqbkuopssnbrw
jpdwbylbyrwbjlojs.iulobyrpybyrwnbquqbolybuoywoqbylbpyypjfbyrpybou ry,
poqbyrwtwkltwbrwbdu rybtwsphbruibepyjrk.sowiibpoqb.yusucwbyrwbyudwbuo
polyrwtbpoqbdltwbp twwpgswbdpoowtabUoiyt.jyuo byrwbg.sfblkbruibepttulti
ylbtwdpuobowptbyrwb pywbpoqbwxwtb.mlobyrwbpswty,beuyrbltqwtibyrpybrwbgw
i.ddlowqbyrwbdldwoybyrpybyrwbEpcutubirlewqbponbjrpo wbuobpyyuy.qw,
S.xuoubtwmputwqbylbyrwbr.ybuoberujrbrwbrpqbswkybSpqnb twniylfwa

Yrwbgspjfbepibpbr. wbkwssle,beuyrbsle,btwjwquo bkltwrwpqbpoqbmtl opyrl.i
vpe—pbynmwblkbyrwbslewiybkltdblkbPktujpobow tlabPibrwbwoywtwqbyrwbr.y
euyrbpbsu rywqbyltjrberujrbrwbiy.jfbuobyrwbksllt,bruibgsllqirlybwnwi
 pcwqb twwqusnbpybyrwbiyussbkltdblkbyrwbeldpobsnuo bmtlowbgwkltwbrudabRw
sujfwqbruibyrujfbsumibpoq,bjlduo bjsliwt,btwpjrwqbl.ybpoqbyl.jrwqbrwta
VpowbJspnylobsllfwqb.m,bpoqbtwjlusuo buobtwx.siulobirtpofbpepnabPybiu ry
lkbyrwbeldpo’ibkpjwbyrwbgspjfbsllfwqbruibi.tmtuiwa

“Erlbptwbnl.?”brwbqwdpoqwqbuobyrwbmuq uobWo suirblkbyrwbjlpiya

“UbpdbSpqnb twniylfw,beukwblkbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”btwmsuwqbVpowbJspnyloa
“Ukbnl.bptwbeuiwbnl.beussbtwswpiwbdwbpyblojwa”

I.tmtuiwbpoqbywttltbirlewqbuobyrwbwnwiblkbS.xuou,bpoqbpolyrwtbwdlyulobpi
ewss,bg.yberujrbel.sqbqlduopywbyrwbd.qqnbgtpuobuybepibqukkuj.sy,byrwo,
ylbywssabKltbpbslo byudwbrwbipyb pcuo bpybrwt,bpoqbislesnbyrwb twwqn,
 slpyuo bwhmtwiiulob.mlobruibkpjwbqlduopywqbpoqbwhm.o wqbyrwbkwptbyrpy
rpqbpybkutiybgwwobetuyywobyrwtw,bpoqbuobyrwbjrpo wbVpowbJspnylobtwpqbrwt
qllda

Euyrbk.dgsuo bkuo wtibS.xuoub.oyuwqbyrwbfolyiblkbyrwbgloqibyrpybrwsq
VpowbJspnylo’ibetuiyibpoqbpofswiabIrwbkwsybruibrlybgtwpyrb.mlobrwtbpoq
ipebruibgsllqirlybwnwibpoqbyrwbtwqbylo .wbyrpybdldwoyptusnbsujfwqbyrw
yrujfbsumiabYrwbuoiypoybyrpybirwbkwsybyrwbspiybyrlo beuyrberujrbirwbepi
yuwqbkpssbpepnbirwbswpmwqbylbrwtbkwwybpoqbimtpo bkltbyrwbwoytpojwbylbyrw
r.y,bg.ybpb twpybrpoqbtwpjrwqbkltyrbpoqbiwucwqbrwt,bpoqbpibS.xuou
qtp  wqbrwtbgpjfbyleptqbrud,birwberwwswqbsufwbpbdpqbyu twiibpoqbiyt.jf
twmwpywqsnbpybruib tuoouo ,b. snbkpjwabGnbgt.ywbkltjw,bt.yrswiibpoq
uoqlduypgsw,brwbgwpybqleobrwtbewpfbtwiuiypojwbpoqbislesnbpoqbi.twsn
qtp  wqbrwtbjsliwtbylbrudabLgsuxul.ibylbp. rybwsiw,bqwpkbylbyrwbjtuwiblk
yrwbEpcutubgwkltwbyrwb pywbpoqbylbyrwbi.qqwobowebjlddlyulobyrpybptliwbuo
yrwbxussp w,byrwbyelbiyt.  swqblo,byrwbeldpo,bktldbyrwbkutiy,bkltwqlldwq
ylbqwkwpya

P puoiybyrwbtwptbmpsuipqwb.i.spbrpqbpstwpqnbm.ybg.touo byltjrwibylbrui
gt.irbmuswbpybrpsk-p-qlcwobqukkwtwoybmspjwiabYrwbkspdwi,bkpoowqbgnbp
 woyswbv.o swbgtwwcw,brpqbswpmwqbpsdliybuddwqupywsnbuoylbpbtlptuo 
jloksp tpyulo,bgwkltwberujrbyrwbqtnbellqblkbyrwbmpsuipqwbjt.dgswqbuobp
irlewtblkbt.qqnbimptfiberujrbyrwbeuoqbjpttuwqbylbyrwbyrpyjrwqbtllkiblk
yrwbr.yibgwnloq,b.oyusbuobpobuojtwqugsnbirltybmwtulqblkbyudwbyrwbxussp w
epibpbtlptuo buokwtolblkbkspdwiabPoqbwxwobpib.i.spbrpqbmtwqujywqbyrw
 pywbie.o blmwobpoqbyrwbewiybjlpiybgspjfibieptdwqbkltyrbuobywttltbyleptq
yrwbv.o swab.mlobwuyrwtbiuqwblkbyrwb pywepnbyrwbEpcutubiyllq,bsllfuo 
kltbyrwutbduiytwii,bg.ybyrl. rbyrwnbepuywqbpoqbepyjrwqbuobiuswojwb.oyus
olbdltwbjpdwbktldbyrwb pywepnblkbyrwbxussp w,bpoqb.oyusbyrwbuoywtultblk
yrwbmpsuipqwbepibpbiwwyruo brwssblkbkutw,byrwnbipebolyruo blkbrwta

Slo bpkywtbyrwnbewtwbjloxuojwqbyrpybolbr.dpobgwuo bjl.sqbtwdpuobpsuxwbuo
yrwbxussp wbyrwnbiyussbepuywqbpoqbrlmwq;bg.ybpybspiyb.i.spb pxwb.mbyrw
.iwswiibxu usa

“Irwbepibowxwtbyrwtw,”brwbipuq,b“poqbolebewbd.iybm.ti.wbyrwbgspjfibpoq
jpmy.twbildwblkbyrwd,bktldberldbewbdpnbswptobyrwberwtwpgl.yiblkbSpqn
 twniylfwa”

Uybepibqpnsu rybgwkltwbyrwnbjpdwb.mlobpbidpssbgpoqblkbiytp  swti,berl
ewtwbuobjpdmbpbkwebduswibyleptqbyrwbewiyabYrwiwbyrwnbz.ujfsnbi.ttl.oqwq,
euoouo byrwutbuddwqupywbi.ttwoqwtbgnbmtlduiwiblkbudd.ouynbuobyrwbwxwoy
yrpybyrwnbel.sqbpoiewtbyt.yrk.ssnbyrwbz.wiyuloibyrpyb.i.spbirl.sq
mtlml.oqa

“ErwtwbuibS.xuou?”bqwdpoqwqb.i.sp,berlbrpqbswptowqbyrwbopdwblkbyrw
swpqwtblkbyrwbewiybjlpiybglnibktldbyrwbW.tlmwpoibyrwbwxwouo bgwkltwa

“Ewbqlbolybfole;bewbrpxwbolybiwwobrudbiuojwbEwbswkybyrwbxussp w,”
twmsuwqblowblkbyrwbgspjfiab“EwbewtwbildwblkbyrwbispxwiblkbyrwbPtpgi,bpoq
erwobewbwijpmwqbyrwbmpsuipqwbspiybou rybewbtpobpepnbktldbyrwblyrwti,bklt
ewbyrl. rybyrpybewbirl.sqbgwbipkwtbpslowbyrpobeuyrbS.xuou,berlbuibwxwo
jt.wsswtbyrpobyrwbPtpgia”

“Quqbnl.biwwbyrwberuywbeldwobyrpybrwbgtl. rybylbyrwbjpdmbspiybou ry?”
qwdpoqwqb.i.spa

“Rwbgtl. rybg.yblowberuywbeldpo,”btwmsuwqbyrwblyrwta

“Erpybquqbrwbqlbeuyrbrwt?bErwtwbuibirwbole?”bpifwqb.i.spa

“UbqlbolybfoleabErwobrwbgtl. rybrwtbrwbgl.oqbrwtbrpoqbpoqbkllybpoqbm.y
rwtbuobyrwbr.yberujrbrwbljj.muwqbowptbyrwbxussp wb pywabEwbrpxwbolybiwwo
rwtbiuojwa”

.i.spby.towqbpoqbsllfwqbpybruibjldmpouloiabPb twpybkwptbepibuobruibwnwi,
pbkwptbyrpybepibtwkswjywqbuobyrwbjl.oywopojwiblkbyrwblyrwtia

“Jldw!”brwbipuq,b“ewbirpssbtwy.tobylbyrwbxussp wabPoqbnl.beussb lbeuyr
.i,”brwbpqqwq,bpqqtwiiuo byrwbewiybjlpiybgspjfi,b“poqbukbnl.brpxwbsuwq
ylb.i—”brwbdpqwbpbiu oukujpoybdlxwdwoybeuyrbruibkltwkuo wtbpjtliibrui
yrtlpya

“Ewbrpxwbolybsuwqbylbnl.,”btwmsuwqbyrwblyrwtia

Z.ujfsnbyrwnbtwytpjwqbyrwutbiywmibyleptqbyrwbt.uoiblkbyrwbPtpgbxussp w,
olyruo blkberujrbepibswkybipxwbpbkwebmuswiblkbidlsqwtuo bwdgwtia

“Erwtwbepibyrwbr.ybuoberujrbyrwberuywbeldpobepibjlokuowq?”bqwdpoqwq
.i.sp,bpibyrwnbwoywtwqbyrwbidlfuo bt.uoia

“Rwtw,”bipuqblowblkbyrwbgspjfi,bpoqbepsfwqbz.ujfsnbpbkwebmpjwibgwnloq
erpybrpqbgwwobyrwbxussp wb pywepnabI.qqwosnbrwbrpsywqbpoqbmluoywqbpy
ildwyruo berujrbspnb.mlobyrwb tl.oqa

“Yrwtw,”brwbipuq,b“uibyrwberuywbeldpobnl.biwwfa”

.i.spbpoqbyrwblyrwtibmtwiiwqbklteptqabTp wbpoqb tuwkbjloywoqwqbklt
dpiywtnblkbyrwdbpibyrwnbgwrwsq,bsnuo bgwkltwbyrwd,byrwbjrpttwqbtwdopoyi
lkbpbr.dpobglqna

“Uybuibirw,”bipuqb.i.sp,by.touo bpepnbylbruqwbruib tuwkbpibyrwbywpti
tlsswqbqleobruibwglobjrwwfiabYrwblyrwtbEpcutubewtwbwz.pssnbpkkwjywq,bklt
yrwnbpssbrpqbslxwqbyrwbdpywblkbyrwbgu bGepopa

“Mwtrpmibuybuibolybirw,”bi.  wiywqblowblkbyrwd;b“mwtrpmibuybuibpolyrwta”

“Ewbjpobywssbz.ujfsn,”bjtuwqbpbyrutqab“Ukbrwtbtuo ibptwbpdlo byrwbpirwi
uybuibuoqwwqbirw,”bpoqbrwbfowsybpoqbiwptjrwqbkltbyrwbtuo iberujrbSpqn
 twniylfwbrpguy.pssnbeltwa

.i.spbirllfbruibrwpqbqwimputuo snab“Uybuibirw,”brwbipuq,b“yrwtwbuibyrw
xwtnbiypfwbylberujrbirwbepibkpiywowq”—rwbmluoywqbylbyrwbgspjfwowqbiy.g
lkbpbiypfwbjsliwbgwiuqwbyrwbglqn—“poqbpibkltbyrwbtuo i,bwxwobukbyrwn
ptwbolybyrwtwbuybeussbdwpobolyruo ,bkltbS.xuoubel.sqbrpxwbypfwobyrwd
pepnbktldbrwtbpibillobpibrwbjpmy.twqbrwtabYrwtwbepibyudwbkltbwxwtnlow
wsiwbylbswpxwbyrwbxussp wbwhjwmybirw,berlbepibgl.oqbpoqbjl.sqboly
swpxw—ol,buybjpoolybgwbpolyrwta”

YrwbEpcutubijllmwqbpbirpssleb tpxwbpoqbtwxwtwoysnbqwmliuywqbyrwbpirwi
yrwtw,bdptfuo byrwbimlybeuyrbpbsuyyswbjputoblkbiylowia




[Uss.iytpyulo:bYrwb lsqwobSulobeuyrbyelbdu rynbgl.oqibepib.mlobyrwbRu r
Mtuwiy]




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHXUUU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbIMLLTbLKbTWXWO W


PIbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bpqpmyuo bruibimwwqbylbyrpyblkbVpq-gps-vp,bdpqw
ruibjldmptpyuxwsnbislebepnbyleptqbrldw,brwbtwxuwewqbeuyrbxptnuo 
wdlyuloibyrwbwhmwtuwojwiblkbyrwbmpiybewwfabEruswbrwbrpqbgwwo
.oi.jjwiik.sbuobtpuquo byrwbytwpi.twbxp.syiblkbLmpt,byrwbipjfblk
qupdloqiberujrbrwbjpttuwqbjldmwoipywqbiwxwtps-klsqbkltbyruibduijpttup w
lkbruibmspoiabRuiblosnbjlojwtobolebepibkltbyrwbipkwynblkbruibEpcutu,
poq,bmwtrpmi,bpbytl.gswildwbqwiutwbylbiwwfbl.ybyrwberuywiberlbrpq
qt.  wqbrudbpoqbdwywbl.ybylbyrwdbyrwbm.ouirdwoybyrwnbqwiwtxwqabUobxuwe,
rlewxwt,blkbruib twpywtbqwiutwbylbtwy.tobrldwbrwbqwjuqwqbylbdpfwbol
wkkltybpybpmmtwrwoquo byrwdbkltbyrwbyudwbgwuo bpybswpiya

R.oyuo byl wyrwt,bkwwquo byl wyrwt,bpoqbiswwmuo byl wyrwt,byrwbdpobpoq
yrwb twpybsulobytlqbyrwbipxp wbv.o swbytpusibyleptqbrldwabNwiywtqpnbyrwn
irptwqbyrwbdwpyblkbGptp,byrwbqwwt,bylqpnbyrwnbkwpiywqb.mlobyrwbjptjpii
lkbRltyp,byrwbglpt,bpoqbgwyewwobyrwdbyrwtwbepibsuyyswbjrpojwbyrpybwuyrwt
el.sqb lbr.o tna

Yrwnbrpqbjldwbeuyruobpbqpn’ibdptjrblkbyrwbg.o psleberwobYptcpo
quijlxwtwqbyrwbimlltblkbpbjloiuqwtpgswbglqnblkbepttultiabPibildwbdwo
qwxl.tbyrwbspywiybiyljf-dptfwybz.lypyuloibpibyrl. rbyrwutbxwtnbwhuiywojw
qwmwoqwqb.mlobpobpjj.tpywbfoleswq wblkbyrwd,bilbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi
qwxl.twqbwxwtnbijtpmblkbuokltdpyulobyrpybyrwbv.o swbrwsqbkltbrud,bklt,
uobyt.yr,bpobpjj.tpywbfoleswq wblkbpssbyrpybyruibuokltdpyulobjl.sq
udmptybylbrudbrpqbgwwobq.tuo bruibsukwyudwbpb_iuowbz.pbolo_bylbrui
whuiywojwabIlbolebrwbjptwk.ssnbwhpduowqbyrwbimlltbyrpybspnbgwkltwbrud,
iwxwtpsbqpniblsqbyrl. rbuybepibpoqbmptyupssnblgsuywtpywqbgnbyrwbmpiip w
lkbgwpiyibiuojwbuybrpqbgwwobdpqw,bg.ybnwybsw ugswbwol. rbylbyrwbfwwo
wnwibpoqboliytusiblkbyrwbpmw-dpoabRuibmptyupsbuoqukkwtwojwbi.qqwosnb pxw
epnbylbfwwobuoywtwiy,bkltbpdlo byrwbkllymtuoyiblkbyrwb twpybepttultibrw
ipebolebpoqbp puobyrwbidpsswtblowblkbpberuywbeldpo—pbslxwqbkllymtuoy
yrpybrwbfowebpibewssbpibnl.bfolebnl.tbdlyrwt’ibkpjwa

“YrwbEpcutubtwy.towqbpoqbylsqbrwtbyrpybUbepibduiiuo ,”brwbilsuslz.ucwq,
“poqbolebirwbrpibiwybl.ybeuyrbyrwdbylbiwptjrbkltbdwa”bRwby.towqbylbyrw
suloab“Ewss,bVpq-gps-vp,blojwbp puobewby.tobpepnbktldbrldw—g.ybol,
erwtwbirwbuibuibrldwa”

YrwbqutwjyulobyrpybyrwbytpusbswqbtpyrwtbdniyukuwqbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bpi
uybepibolybpslo byrwbqutwjybtl.ywbyleptqbLmpt,bg.ybuobpbtpyrwtbdltw
il.yrwtsnbqutwjyuloabLobyrwbiuhyrbqpnbruibfwwobwptibjp. rybyrwbil.oqblk
pmmtlpjruo bdwo,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbyrwtwbepibepkywqbylbruiboliytusibyrw
imlltblkbgspjfiabIwoquo bVpq-gps-vpbuoylbpbyrujfwybylbruqw,bYptcpobyllf
ylbyrwbytwwibpoqbdlxwqbtpmuqsnbuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbpmmtlpjruo 
ow tlwiabPibyrwbquiypojwbgwyewwobyrwdbswiiwowqbyrwbijwoybgwjpdw
iytlo wt,b.oyus,bwxwobgwkltwbrwbipebyrwd,bYptcpobfowebyrpybyrwnbewtw
Epcutu,bg.ybyrwblowbwkks.xu.dbyrpybel.sqbrpxwbkusswqbruibil.sbeuyr
rpmmuowiibepibspjfuo a

Uybepibpbi.tmtuiwqb.i.spberl,bpybyrwbrwpqblkbyrwbipqbpoqbqwvwjywq
Epcutu,bjpdwbpybyrwby.touo blkbyrwbytpusbi.qqwosnbkpjwbylbkpjwbeuyrbrui
dpiywta

“YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi!”bjtuwqb.i.spab“Uibuybuoqwwqbnl.?”

“Uybuibolowblyrwt,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpo,b“g.yberwtwbuibSpqnb twniylfw?”

“Pr,bdpiywt,brlebjpobewbywssbnl.!”bjtuwqb.i.spa

“Nl.bqlbolybdwpo—”bjtuwqbYptcpoab“UybjpoolybgwabOlyruo bjl.sqbrpmmwobyl
rwtberuswbirwbepib .ptqwqbgnbdnbEpcutu!”

Yrwbepttultibr.o byrwutbrwpqibuobirpdwbpoqbilttleab“Ewblkkwtbl.tbsuxwi
kltbrwti,”bipuqb.i.sp,biudmsnabRwbyrtwebqleobruibimwptbpoqbiruwsqbpoq,
iytwyjruo bruibptdibeuqwbpmpty,bgptwqbruib twpybgtwpiybylbYptcpoa
“Iytufw,bGepop,”brwbipuqa

Yrwbpmw-dpoby.towqbpepnbeuyrbglewqbrwpqabMtwiwoysnbrwbsllfwqbpyb.i.sp
p puoab“Ywssbdwbrlebuybrpmmwowq,”brwbipuq,b“poqbklt wybnl.tbkllsuir
imwwjrbpibUbrpxwbklt lyywobyrwbi.  wiyuloberujrbmtldmywqbuya”

Gtuwksnb.i.spbopttpywqbyrwbwxwoyiberujrbrpqbswqb.mbylbyrwbqwpyrblkbVpow,
poqberwobrwbepibqlowbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibimlfwbg.ybyrtwwbeltqi,bxlujuo bp
z.wiyuloberujrbepibynmujpsblkbruda

“ErwtwbuibS.xuou?”brwbpifwqa

“Pr,byrpybewbqlbolybfole,”btwmsuwqb.i.spa

“G.ybUbirpssbfole,”bipuqbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiab“ lb.mlobnl.tbepn,bdn
jrusqtwo,bgpjfbylbnl.tbr.yi,bpoqbnl.tbeldwobpoqbnl.tbjrusqtwo,bpoqberwo
owhybnl.biwwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibnl.beussbfolebyrpybS.xuoubuibqwpqa”

Yrwnbgw  wqbmwtduiiulobylbpjjldmponbrud,bg.ybrwbel.sqbolybsuiywobyl
yrwda

“Nl.bptwbowwqwqbpybrldwbpybyruibyudwblkbnwpt,”brwbipuqab“Pstwpqnbrpxw
nl.bgwwob lowbyllbslo bktldbyrwbrwtqibpoqbkuwsqiabTwy.to,byrwo,bpoq
jpttnbeltqbylbFltpf,bg.ybywssbrudbyrpybuybuibdnbeuirbyrpybrw,byll,
twdpuoibpybrldw—ukbUbkpus,byrwobdpnbrwbjldwbpoqbypfwb.mbdnb.okuouirwq
eltfbukbrwbeuirwibylbqlbila”bPibrwbjwpiwqbimwpfuo brwby.towqbgpjfbuobyrw
qutwjyulobktldberujrbrwbrpqbjldw,bpoqberuiyswqblojwbpbiuo sw,bsle,
slo -qtpeobolyw,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbVpq-gps-vp,byrwb lsqwobsulo,bgl.oqwq
uoylbxuwebpslo byrwbv.o swbytpusa

“Yrwb lsqwobsulo!”bjtuwqb.i.spab“ErwobrwbwijpmwqbktldbFwwepcubuybepibyl
iwptjrbkltbruibgwslxwqbGepopa”

Yptcpobolqqwqab“Rwbklsslewqbdponbdptjrwibylbpbiytpo wbjl.oytnb.oyusbrw
kl.oqbdw,”brwbipuq,bpoqbyrwobrwbguqbyrwbEpcutub llq-gnwbpoqbgwoybrui
iywmiblojwbdltwbpepnbktldbrldwbuobiwptjrblkbS.xuoubpoqbtwxwo wa

VlrobMwwgswi,bewq wqbuobyrwbjtlyjrblkbpbspt wbytww,b twwywqbyrwbjlduo 
qpeobeuyrbewptnbwnwiabOwptbrudbepibQujfbYrtljf,biudusptsnbgtpjwqbuo
polyrwtbjtlyjr,beruswbFtpifu,bdltwbuoywssu woybpoqbyrwtwkltwbmliiwiiuo 
dltwbuoxwoyuxwb wou.i,brpqbtu  wqbpbidpssbmspykltdblkbgtpojrwibpjtlii
yelbmptpsswsbgl. ri,b.mloberujrbrwbspnbuobjldmptpyuxwbjldkltyabYwobkwwy
pglxwbrudbGs.gwtbie.o ,brpskbwhrp.iywqbpoqberlssnbywttukuwq,bylbp
idpsswtbgtpojr,bi.mmltywqbuobildwyruo byrpybpmmtlhudpywqbipkwynbgnbp
kltfblkbyrwbgtpojrbylberujrbrwbjs.o a

“ ltq,”b tlpowqbMwwgswi,b“ru’ssbswybyrwbgsllqnbsuloib’pxwbdwbgwkltw
ru’ssbimwoqbpolyrwtbi.jrbpbou rybpibyrui,bpo’b’wtwbewbptw,b’obyrpy’i
yrpy!”

“Poqbgsudw,byll,”bipuqbYrtljf,b“rubiswwmiblobyrwb tl.oqbrpkywtbyrui,
suloibltbolbsuloia”

“Ukbyrwbjldguowqbuoywssu wojwblkbyrwbyrtwwblkbnl.bepibwz.psbylbyrpyblkbp
epst.i,”btwdptfwqbFtpifu,b“ewbdu rybrpxwbiswmybuobjldmptpyuxwbipkwynbpoq
jldkltybspiybou ryblobyrwb tl.oqa”

“Rwnbyrwtw,bGs.gwt,b_Duiywt_bFtpifubuibimufuo’bylbnwt,”bjpsswqbMwwgswi
uobkuowbiptjpid,bpjjwoyuo byrwbDuiywta

“_Lu!bLu!_bUbqlo’ybjptwbxlybolglqnbipni,”bdlpowqbGs.gwta

“’Wbepoyib.ibylbg.usqbpb’l.iwbkltb’udbrwxwtnbou ry,”bjloyuo.wqbMwwgswi,
“eruswb’wbiypoqibpgprybpoqbywssib.ibgsllduo’bewssb’lebylbqlbuy,bpoqb’ud,
gwuo’bpbkuowb woyswdpo,bqlo’ybqlbolbeltfa”

“Ernbirl.sqbUbqlbponbeltfbeuyrbdnbrpoqiberwobnl.byelbgu bgwpiyibrpxwo’y
 lybponyruo bwsiwbylbeltfbeuyr?”bpifwqbFtpifuab“Nl.bel.sqbpssbrpxw
iyptxwqbgnbyruibyudwbukbUbrpqo’ybkl.oqbkllqbkltbnl.abPoqbnl.’ssbgwbsulo
dwpybuobyrwbwoq,bltbquwblkbwhrp.iyulobukbnl.bqlo’ybsuiywobylbdw—oly
yrpybuybel.sqbgwbd.jrbsliia”

YrwblyrwtibmpuqbolbpyywoyulobylbruibspiybipssnabPibpbdpyywtblkbkpjybyrwn
rpqbpssbgwwobz.pttwsuo bilbd.jrbkltbi.jrbpbslo byudwbyrpybyrwnbtwpssn
mpuqbsuyyswbpyywoyulobylblowbpolyrwtabEuyrbyrwbwhjwmyuloblkbMwwgswibpoq
Yrtljfbyrwnbpssbrpywqblowbpolyrwtbjltqupssn,bpoqblosnbjs.o byl wyrwt
gwjp.iwbyrwnbewtwbpktpuqbylbiwmptpywabIslesnbMwwgswibslewtwqbruibg.sfbyl
yrwb tl.oqabYrtljfbklsslewqbrud,bpoqbyrwobjpdwbFtpifu,bpoqbyrwo,
kuopssn,bGs.gwt,berlbiyllqbkltbpbdldwoybuobiuswojw,bsllfuo bqleobpybrui
quitwm.ypgswbjslyruo a

“_Dwuob lyy!_”brwbwhjspudwqbpybspiyab“Sllfbpybdw!bQuibi.uy,bxlybuybjliy
dwbyxwoynb .uowpi,bsllfbpybuyabT.uowqabT.uowqabUybxl.sqo’ybgtuo bx.o
mwoonbuobqwtbml.oqa”

“Yrwbrwssbeuyrbnl.tbjslyrwi!”bwhjspudwqbFtpifuab“Rwtwbewbptw,bsliy,brpsk
iyptxwq,bjloiypoysnbdwopjwqbgnbeusqbpoudpsi,bpoqbdpngw,bkltbpssbewbfole,
gnbjpoougpsi,beuyrbKsltpbduiiuo buobyrwbv.o sw,bpoqbnl.bjpobiypoqbyrwtw
poqbypsfbpgl.ybnl.tb’yxwoynb .uowp’bi.uyabNl.bdpfwbdwbyutwq,bGs.gwtabG.y
jldwblo,bewbdu rybpibewssbgwbdlxuo a”

“Erujrbepn?”bpifwqbYrtljfa

“Ern,bylbyrwbewiy,blkbjl.tiw,”btwmsuwqbFtpifuab“Yrwbjlpiybuibyrwtw,bpoq
yrwtwbuibolyruo bwsiwbkltb.ibylbqlbg.ybytnbylbtwpjrbuya”

“Ewbjpo’ybtwpjrbuybgnb luo’bwpiy,”btlptwqbMwwgswi,b“po’b’wtwbewbptw,b’o
yrpy’ibyrpya”

“Erlbipuqbewbjl.sq?”bqwdpoqwqbFtpifua

“Ewss,bewbepibytpxwsuo’bwpiybpssbqpnbnwiywtqpn,”bipuqbMwwgswiab“Ubfowe
pssbyrwbyudwbyrpybyrwtwbepibildwyruo’betlo ,bpoqbUbv.iyb lybuybku .twq
l.ya”

Yrtljfbsllfwqbpybruibmptyowtbuobiy.muqbi.tmtuiwab“Erpybqlbnl.bdwpo?”brw
 tleswqab“Erpybdpfwibnl.byruofbewbepibytpxwsuo’bwpiy?”

“Uy’ibwpinbwol. r,”btwmsuwqbMwwgswi,b“poqbUbjpobmtlxwbuybylbnl.abGwjp.iw
yruibmptynbrwtwbfoleibilbd.jrbdltwbyrpobyrwbtwiyblkb.ibew’xwbgwwo
ytpxwsuo’biytpu rybyleptqbyrwbuoywtultbwxwtbiuojwbyrwbou  wtibqwiwtywq
.ia”bRwbolqqwqbyleptqbyrwbT.iiupo,berlbiyllqbeuyrbruibrpoqiblobruibrumi,
wnwuo byrwblyrwtbz.uccujpssna

“Ukbnl.byruofbU’dbypfuo bnl.buobyrwbetlo bqutwjyulo,bMwwgswi,”bipuq
Ftpifu,b“nl.bv.iyby.tobptl.oqbpoqb lbyrwblyrwtbepn;bg.ybU’db luo byl
fwwmblobyrwbepnbew’xwbgwwob luo ,berujrbuibyrwbtu rybepna”

“Uybpuo’ybyrwbtu rybepn,”btwyltywqbMwwgswi,b“poqbU’ssbirlebnwtabSuiywo
rwtwabErwobnl.bytpxwsbewiybyrwbi.obuibpybnl.tbswkybiuqw,buio’ybuy—yrpy
ui,bpssbq.tuo’byrwbduqqswblkbyrwbqpnabEwss,bwxwtbiuojwbew’xwbgwwo
ytpxwsuo’beuyrl.ybyrwbou  wtibyrwbi.obrpibgwwoblobl.tbtu ryabUbyrl. ry
pssbyrwbyudwbyrwtwbepibildwyruo’betlo ,bg.ybUbjl.sqbowxwtbku .twbuybl.y
.oyusbv.iyboleabUy’ibmspuobpibyrwbkpjwblobnl.tboliwabEw’xwbgwwo
ytpxwsuo’bq.wbwpiybtu rybpslo a”

“Gsudw,”bjtuwqbYrtljf,b“yrpybewbrpxw,bq.wbwpiy,bpoqbyruibgsu rywtbyruofi
pib’leb’wbfoleibuybpssa”

“_Lu!_”b tlpowqbGs.gwt,b“.oqbxwb lybylbxpsfbuybpssbgpjfbp puobnwy,blojw
dltw?”

Ftpifubsp. rwqbpoqby.towqbpepnbylbtwi.dwbyrwbdptjrbuobyrwbqutwjyulobrw
rpqbjrliwoab“Nl.bkwssleib lblobnl.tbleobepnbukbnl.bepoybyl,”brwbipuq,
“poqberuswbnl.’twbytpxwsuo ,bv.iybmloqwtbyrwbkpjybyrpybnl.’twbil.yrblk
yrwbwz.pyltbpoqbyrpybyrwtwkltwbyrwbi.obuibpsepnibuobyrwboltyr,berujr,
rlewxwt,bqlwio’ybjrpo wbuyiblsq-kpirulowqbrpguyblkbiwyyuo buobyrwbewiya”

Gs.gwtbepibyrwbkutiybylb tpimbyrwbyt.yrblkbFtpifu’ibiypywdwoyab“Jldwblo,
glni,”brwbipuq,b“Jptsbxpibtu ry,”bpoqbrwby.towqbpoqbklsslewqbyrw
T.iiupoa

Mwwgswibiyllqbijtpyjruo bruibrwpq,bwoyutwsnbgpkkswqbgnbyrwbm.ccsuo 
mtlgswd,berujrbYrtljf,bpsil,bepibmloqwtuo bqwwmsnabMtwiwoysnbyrwbspyywt
y.towqbpkywtbGs.gwtbpoqbFtpifuab“Jldwblo,bVlro,”brwbipuqbylbMwwgswi,b“ru
qlo’ybr.oqwtiypoqbuy,bg.ybrub .wiibyrwn’twbtu ryabYrwnbptwbrwpquo’btu ry
yleptqberwtwbyrwbi.obiwybspiybou ry,bpoqbyrpybi.twbd.iybgwbewiya”

Ruibyrwltnbylyywtuo ,bMwwgswibklsslewqbYrtljf,byrl. rbrwbtwdpuowq
.ojloxuojwqa

Yrwbkl.tbdwo,br.o tnbpoqbkllyiltw,brpqbqtp  wqbyrwutbewptnbepnbpslo byrw
v.o swbytpusbyleptqbyrwbewiybkltbiwxwtpsbrl.tibuobxpuobiwptjrbkltb pdwa
.oijrllswqbuobv.o swbjtpkybyrwnbgs.oqwtwqbloabYrwtwbdu rybrpxwbgwwoblo
wxwtnbrpoqbkuwtjwbjptouxltwbltbipxp wbepttulti,bg.ybilbq.ssbptwbyrw
mwtjwmyuxwbkpj.syuwiblkbjuxusucwqbdpo,byrwbdliybgspypoybklwbdu rybrpxw
iypsfwqbyrwdb.omwtjwuxwqa

Poqbilbuybepibyrpybirltysnbpkywtbollo,bpibyrwnbewtwbjtliiuo bpbidpss
jswptuo ,byrwbcumblkbpobpttlebyrpybgptwsnbduiiwqbGs.gwt’ibrwpq,bgtl. ry
yrwdbylbpbi.qqwo,bywttukuwqbrpsyabEuyrbpbirtussbijtwpdblkbywttltbyrwbVwe
jt.dmswqbylbyrwb tl.oqabFtpifubyrtwebruibtukswbylbruibirl.sqwtbpoq
kutwqa

“Yrwtw!”brwbjtuwq,b“gwruoqbyrliwbg.irwi,”bpoqbyrwobpolyrwtbpttle,bktld
polyrwtbqutwjyulo,bmuwtjwqbruibkltwptdabMwwgswibpoqbYrtljf,bgwwknbpoq
j.dgwtildw,b lybuoylbpjyulobeuyrbswiibjwswtuynbyrpobyrwbT.iiupo,bg.y,
sufwbrud,byrwnbirlewqbolbuoqujpyuloblkbkwpta

“Qleo,”bjtuwqbFtpifu,bi.uyuo byrwbpjyulobylbyrwbeltqab“Suwbqleobpoqbswy
yrwdbrpxwbuya”

Ijptjwsnbrpqbyrwbyrtwwbdwobqtlmmwqbpdlo byrwbslo b tpiiberwobpbijltwblk
mu dnbr.oywtibjpdwbuoylbyrwblmwo,bpoqbpbxlsswnblkbpttleiberuccwqbpglxw
yrwbmtlowbdwo,beruswbktldbpbowptgnbytwwbyelbiywws- tpnbwnwibsllfwqbqleo
.mlobyrwbpdg.ira

Gs.gwtbspnb.mlobruibgwssnbeuyrbruibkpjwbg.tuwqbuobruibptdi,bruib.iwswii
tukswbsnuo bpybruibiuqw,bg.ybFtpifu,bMwwgswi,bpoqbYrtljf,bku ryuo bklt
yrwutbsuxwi,bm.dmwqbswpqbuoylbyrwbgpoqblkbnwssuo bmu duwia

FtpifubpoqbMwwgswibwpjrbqtlmmwqbpbopyuxwbeuyrbruibtukswbpoqbyrwobyrwbklw
euyrqtwebuoylbyrwbjlojwpsuo bipkwynblkbyrwbi.ttl.oquo bv.o swabKltbp
dldwoybyrwtwbepibpbjwiipyuloblkbrliyusuyuwiab.yywtbiuswojwbtwu owq,bpoq
yrwobpbxlujwbgtlfwbyrwbz.uwybktldbyrwbxwtq.twblkbpbowptgnbkltwiyb upoya

“Qlbolybkutwb.oyusbUbywssbnl.byl,”buybipuq,buobWo suir,b“poqbUbeussbipxw
nl.a”

Gs.gwtbtpuiwqbruibrwpqab“Jldwbzxujf!bJldwbzxujf!”brwbjtuwq,b“xwbxussboly
irllyabIpkwbdw,bipkwbdw,b.oqbUb ukkbnl.bkuxwbml.oqia”

Ktldbyrwbytwwbktldberujrbyrwbxlujwbrpqbuii.wqbyrwtwbjpdwbpbiuo sw,bsle,
slo -qtpeo,beruiyswqbolyw,bpoqbyrwobiuswojwbkltbpbyudwa

Yrwbmu duwi,bdldwoyptusnbi.tmtuiwqbgnbyrwbdniywtul.ibxlujwbwdpopyuo 
ktldbyrwbklsup wblkbpbytww,bjwpiwqbyrwutbpjyuxuyuwi,bg.ybmtwiwoysn,
rwptuo bolyruo bylbptl.iwbyrwutbkwpt,byrwnbwdwt wqbktldbyrwbjlxwtblkbyrw
g.irwibpoqbsp.ojrwqbpolyrwtbxlsswnblkbpttleibyleptqbyrwbkl.tbdwobsnuo 
pdlo byrwb tpiiwibuobyrwbjswptuo abIud.sypowl.isnbyrwbku .twblkbpb upoy
eruywbswpmwqbktldbyrwbslewtbgtpojrwiblkbpbmpytuptjrblkbyrwbv.o sw,bpibp
 twpybgspjf-dpowqbsulobimtpo bktldbyrwbyrujfwybgwslea

“_Lu!_”birtuwfwqbGs.gwt,bpoqbp puobg.tuwqbruibkpjwbuobruibptdia

Kltbpobuoiypoybyrwbmu duwibiyllqbywttukuwq,bpoqbyrwobyrwutbswpqwtbjtuwq:
“UybuibYptcpo!”bpoqby.towqbpoqbkswqbuoylbyrwbv.o swa

“Nwi,buybuibYptcpo—YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”bjtuwqbSltqb twniylfwab“Uybui
Yptcpobpoqbyrwb lsqwobsulo,”bg.ybrwbimlfwbuobyrwbqupswjyblkbyrwbmu duwi,
poqbyrwberuywib.oqwtiyllqbolbeltqblkberpybrwbipuqabYrwobrwby.towqbyl
yrwdab“Yrwb ldpo poubrpxwb low,”brwbipuq;b“ wyb.ma”

Yrwbkl.tbdwobjtpeswqbylbyrwutbkwwyab“Erlbptwbnl.,bpoqberpybptwbnl.bqluo 
rwtw?”bqwdpoqwqbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiab“G.ybUbqlbolybowwqbylbpifberlbnl.
ptwabNl.bptwbyrwbdwoberlbqt.  wqbdw,bpoqbswkybdwbrwsmswiibuobnl.tbjpdm,
pbmtwnbylbyrwbkutiybmpiiuo bsulobltbipxp wbopyuxwa”

Gs.gwtbiy.dgswqbklteptq,bt.gguo bruibmpsdibyl wyrwtbpoqbjtuo uo bpoq
idusuo ab“_Lu!bLu!_bDtabYptcpo,bxwbquqbolybfolebnl.abOwkkwtbxl.sqbxwbquq
xpybxwbqlow,brpqbxwbfoleobuybxpibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiabIpkwbdw!bYwo
ml.oqi—yxwoynbml.oqi—pony’uo abOpdwbnl.tbleobmtujwabIpkwbdw,b.oqbuybui
nl.tia”

Yptcpobu oltwqbyrwbVwebpoqby.towqbyleptqbyrwblyrwtiab“Ubpdbsllfuo bklt
lowblkbnl.tbdwo,”brwbipuq;b“pbgspjfbopdwqbS.xuouabRwbfusswqbdnbeukwa
Erwtwbuibrw?”

“Ewbfolebolyruo blkbyrpy,”bipuqbFtpifuab“S.xuoubgwytpnwqb.ibpoqbqwiwtywq
.iabNl.tbeukwbpoqbpolyrwtberuywbeldpobewtwbuobl.tbjpdmbpybyrwbyudwabOlow
lkb.ibfoleiberpybgwjpdwblkbyrwdabYrwnbewtwbgwruoqb.iberwobewbyllfbl.t
mliybylbqwkwoqbyrwbjpdmbktldbl.tbdwobpoqbyrwbispxwiblkbyrwbPtpgiabNl.t
EpcutubewtwbyrwtwabPkywtbyrwbwowdnbrpqbeuyrqtpeobewbkl.oqbyrpybyrwbyel
eldwobrpqbquipmmwptwqabEwbqlbolybfoleberpybgwjpdwblkbyrwdabEwbptw
sllfuo bkltbyrwdbolea”

“DnbEpcutubylsqbdwbpibd.jr,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“g.ybrpxwbnl.biwwobp. ryblk
S.xuoubiuojw?”

“Ol,bewbrpxwboly,”btwmsuwqbFtpifua

“Erpybptwbnl.bqluo brwtw?”bqwdpoqwqbYptcpoa

“EwbjpdwbeuyrbDtabGs.gwtblobpbijuwoyukujbwhmwquyulo,”btwmsuwqbyrw
T.iiupoab“Ewbrpxwbrpqbpb twpybqwpsblkbytl.gswabL.tbrwpq-dwo,bpifptu,bpoq
mltywtibrpxwbd.yuouwqbpoqbqwiwtywqabEwbptwbpgils.ywsnbpslowbpoq
rwsmswiia”

“_Lu!bLu!_”bjtuwqbGs.gwtab“Ipkwb.i!bIpkwb.i!bG.ybfwwmbqlybsulobpxpnabRw
dpfwibdwbowtkl.ia”

“Rwbeussbolybr.tybnl.—.oswiibUbywssbrudbyl,”bipuqbYptcpoa

“Qwobmswpiwbqlo’ybywssbrudbyl,”bjtuwqbGs.gwta

“Erwtwbqlbnl.bepoybylb l?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Ewbptwbytnuo bylb wybgpjfbylbyrwbjlpiy,”btwmsuwqbFtpifu,b“poqbktld
yrwtwbylbSloqloa”

“Jldwbeuyrbdw,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“mliiugsnbUbjpobrwsmbnl.abNl.bqlboly
qwiwtxwbuy,bg.ybUbjpoolybiwwberuywbdwobmwtuirbrwtwbuobyrwbv.o swa”

Yrwnbklsslewqbrudbyleptqbyrwbewiy,bpoqbyrpybou rybyrwnbdpqwbjpdmbgwiuqw
pbidpssbv.o swbiytwpda

Uybepibqukkuj.sybkltbyrwbkl.tbSloqlowtibylbpjj.iyldbyrwdiwsxwibylbyrw
mtwiwojwblkbyrwb twpybsulo,bpoqbGs.gwtbepibuobpbiypywblkbmpsmpgsw
ywttlta

Pibyrwnbiz.pyywqbptl.oqbyrwbkutwbpkywtbyrwbwxwouo bdwps,berujrbYptcpo
rpqbmtlxuqwq,bFtpifubi.  wiywqbyrpybyrwnbiwybylbpoqbg.usqbildwbiltyblkbp
irwsywtbp puoiybyrwbeusqbgwpiyia

“Uybeussbolybgwbowjwiiptn,”bipuqbYptcpoab“Vpq-gps-vpbeussb .ptqbnl.abRw
eussbiswwmbrwtwbgwiuqwbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bpoqberpyblowblkb.ibqlwiboly
rwptbyrwblyrwtbeussa”

Gs.gwtbiu rwqab“_Dwuob lyy!_”brwbjtuwqab“Ubirl.sqb ukkbywobml.oqibklt
x.obou ry’ibiswwma”

“Nl.bdpnbrpxwbuybylou rybkltbswiibyrpobyrpy,”btwmsuwqbYptcpo,b“klt
olyruo birpssbgwkpssbnl.beruswbVpq-gps-vpbpoqbUbptwbrwtwa”

“Xwss,bqwobUby’uofbUbipnb llqbou ry,”bipuqbyrwbVwe,bpoqbdlxuo bpbkwe
mpjwibpepnbktldbyrwbkutwbrwbj.tswqb.mbpoqbepibillobpiswwmabYrtljfbpoq
Mwwgswibklsslewqbi.uy,bpoqbirltysnbpkywtbFtpifu,bylla

PibyrwbT.iiupobspn,brpskbqlcuo ,bruibwnwibmptyupssnblmwo,brwbipebyrw
pmw-dpobtuiwbktldbyrwbiz.pyyuo bmliuyulobrwbrpqbdpuoypuowqbgwkltwbyrw
kutw,bpoqby.tobyleptqbpbowptgnbytwwabPibrwbquqbilbildwyruo bkwssbktld
gwowpyrbruibsluobjslyr—pbsuyyswbipjfbdpqwblkbruqwi—pbsuyyswbipjf,
g.s uo beuyrbuyibjloywoyia

Ftpifu,byrltl. rsnbpepfwowqbole,bepyjrwqbuybpibyrwbpmw-dpobdlxwqblkkbp
irltybquiypojw,bpjjldmpouwqbgnbVpq-gps-vp,bpoqbspnbqleobylbiswwma

Yrwb twpybsulobj.tswqbgwiuqwbyrwbmtliytpywbdpo,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbyrw
T.iiupobepibpii.twqbyrpybglyrbiswmyabUddwqupywsnbrwbjlddwojwqbjtpesuo ,
iywpsyrusnbpoqbislesnbyleptqbyrwbsuyyswbmpjfp wbsnuo bgwiuqwbyrwbkutwa
Euyrbwpjrbklteptqbdlxwbyrpybrwbdpqwbrwbmp.iwqbpoqbsllfwqbpybyrw
twj.dgwoybku .twiblkbyrwbyelbkwtljul.ibgwpiyibgwkltwbrud,bg.ybglyrbiswmy
lobmwpjwk.ssnabPybspiybyrwbT.iiupobjl.sqbtwpjrbl.ybpoqb tpimbyrwbipjf,
poqbqtpeuo buybyleptqbrudbrwbiy.kkwqbuybz.ujfsnbuoiuqwbruibirutyabYrwo
rwby.towqbpoqbjtpeswqbislesnbpoqbjptwk.ssnbgpjfbylbruibmspjwbgwnloqbyrw
kutwabYrwtw,bsnuo beuyrbruibrwpqb.mloblowbptdbpibyrl. rbuobmtlkl.oq
is.dgwt,brwbkwsybjptwk.ssnblkbyrwbipjfbeuyrbyrwbkuo wtiblkbruibswky
rpoqa

“Yrwnbkwwsbsufwbmwggswi,”brwbd.yywtwqbylbrudiwsk,b“poqbql.gyswiibyrpybui
erpybyrwnbptw,bkltbyrwbgptgptujbltopdwoypyuloblkbyruibipxp wbgptgptupo
erlbuibpbmwwtblkbWo spoqabUybqlwibolybiwwdbmliiugswbyrpybyruibeusqbgwpiy
rpibipybuobyrwbRl.iwblkbSltqia”

OluiwswiisnbFtpifub.oquqbyrwbfolyberujrbrwsqbyrwbdl.yrblkbyrwbipjf
jsliwq,bpoqbpbdldwoybspywtbrwbswybpbmltyuloblkbyrwbjloywoyibytujfsw
kltyrbuoylbruiblmwobmpsda

“Dnb lq!”brwbjtuwq,b“qupdloqi!”

 twwqusnbrwbml.twqbyrwdbpssbl.ybpoqb slpywqblxwtbyrwd— twpy
ijuoyusspyuo biylowiblkbyrwbkutiybepywt—kuxwbml.oqiblkbm.tw,beruyw
qupdloqi,btwmtwiwoyuo bilbkpg.sl.ibpbklty.owbyrpybyrwbxwtnbjloywdmspyulo
lkbuybiyp  wtwqbyrwbT.iiupoa

“Dnb lq!”brwbtwmwpywq,b“yrwbewpsyrblkbJtœi.ibuobdnbleobrpoqa”

Z.ujfsnbrwb pyrwtwqb.mbyrwbiylowibpoqbtwmspjwqbyrwdbuobyrwbipjf,bpsepni
euyrblowbwnwb.mlobYptcpobpoqbVpq-gps-vp;bg.ybowuyrwtbiyuttwq,bpoq
mtwiwoysnbrwbrpqbtwy.towqbyrwdbpssbylbyrwbml.jrbpoqbisummwqbyrwbmpjfp w
uoiuqwbruibirutya

“Yldlttle,”brwbd.yywtwq,b“yldlttle—el.sqbylb lqbyrpybUbrpqbyrwbowtxwbyl
pyywdmybuybylou rya”

Uobyrwbduqqswblkbyrwbklssleuo bdltouo bYptcpo,beuyrbyrwbkl.tbSloqlowti,
pmmtlpjrwqbpb llqbiucwq,biyljfpqwqbxussp w,bjloypuouo bdponbr.yiabRwbepi
twjwuxwqbolyblosnb tpjul.isn,bg.ybeuyrbyrwbqwkwtwojwbq.wbpobwdmwtlta

Yrwberuywibewtwbpewqbgnbyrwbpyyuy.qwblkbyrwbgspjfbjruwkbpoqbruibepttulti
pibYptcpobepibjloq.jywqbuoylbyrwutbmtwiwojwa

Pkywtbyrwb.i.psbjwtwdlonbrpqbgwwob lowbyrtl. r,bYptcpoby.towqbpoqbepxwq
ruibrpoqbyleptqbyrwbkl.tbW.tlmwpoiab“Yrwiwbptwbdnbktuwoqi,”brwbipuqbyl
yrwbgspjfbjruwk,b“poqbyrwnbeuirbylbtwpjrbyrwbjlpiybuobipkwynabIwoqbeuyr
yrwd,byrwo,bi.kkujuwoybepttultibylbkwwqbpoqb .ptqbyrwdbq.tuo byrw
vl.townabUybuibU,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,berlbtwz.wiyibyruibkpxlta”

“YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,byrwb twpybjruwk,bSltqblkbyrwbV.o sw,brpibg.ybyl
jlddpoq,”btwmsuwqbyrwbgspjfa

“ llq!”bwhjspudwqbYptcpo,b“kwwqbyrwdbewssbpoqbytwpybyrwdbewssabUbrpxw
lyrwtbg.iuowiibylbpyywoqbylbpoqbdpnbolybtwdpuoa”

“Yrwutbgwssuwibirpssbgwbkusswq,bpoqbyrwnbirpssbtwpjrbyrwbjlpiy
.oijpyrwq,”btwmsuwqbyrwbjruwka

Euyrl.ybpbeltqblkbkptwewss,beuyrl.ybwxwobpbiu obyrpybrwbtwpsucwqbyrwut
whuiywojw,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibmpiiwqbktldbyrwbiu ryblkbyrwbkl.t
W.tlmwpoi,beruswbpybruibrwwsibmpjwqbVpq-gps-vp,byrwb lsqwobsuloa




[Uss.iytpyulo:bR.oyuo byl wyrwt,byrwbdpobpoqbyrwb twpybsulobytlqbyrw
mpyribyleptqbrldw]




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHUH
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbPbGPTGWQbIRPKYbFUSSI


FTPIFUbimwoybpbiswwmswiibou ryabRwbjl.sqbolybrwsmbg.ybtwpsucwbyrpy
illowtbltbspywtbYptcpobel.sqbquijlxwtbyrwbsliiblkbruibml.jrblkbqupdloqi,
poqbyrpybrwbel.sqbtwy.tobpoqbqwdpoqbpobpjjl.oyuo blkbyrwbkl.tbSloqlowti
rwbrpqbgwktuwoqwqabPoqbilbuybepibyrpybpibyrwbkutiybiytwpfblkbqpeo
su rywqbyrwbwpiywtobrltuclo,byrwbT.iiupobptliwbktldbruibmpsswyblkbqtuwq
 tpiiwibeuyruobyrwbr.ybyrpybrpqbgwwobpiiu owqbrudbpoqbGs.gwtbgnbyrw
jruwk,bpoqbjtwmybiywpsyrusnbl.ybuoylbyrwbxussp wbiytwwya

“ lq!”brwbd.yywtwqbylbrudiwskab“Yrwtwbuiblosnblowbjrpojwbuobpbyrl.ipoq
yrpybUbjpobtwpjrbyrwbjlpiybpslow,bg.ybyrui,”bpoqbrwbmtwiiwqbruibrpoq
lxwtbyrwbgp blkbqupdloqibyrpybspnbeuyruobruibiruty—“g.ybyrui,byruibui
eltyrbwxwtnbwkklty,bwxwobylbyrwbipjtukujwblkbsukw—yrwbklty.owblkbp
yrl.ipoqbfuo i—dnb lq,berpybjl.sqbUbolybqlbeuyrbuybuobSloqlo,bpoq
Mptui,bpoqbOwebNltf!”

Iywpsyrusnbrwbis.ofbktldbyrwbxussp w,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbyrwbxwtq.twblkbyrw
v.o swbgwnloqbjsliwqbpgl.ybJptsbFtpifu,byrwbT.iiupo,bpibrwbquipmmwptwq
kltwxwtbktldbyrwbsuxwiblkbruibjldmpouloia

Gs.gwtbepibyrwbkutiybylbquijlxwtbyrwbpgiwojwblkbFtpifu,bklt,bpsyrl. r
yrwtwbepibolbslxwbgwyewwobyrwbyel,byrwnbrpqbgwwobyrtleobyl wyrwtbleuo 
ylbyrwbktuwoqirumblkbMwwgswibpoqbYrtljfa

“Rpxwbnl.biwwobJptsbyruibdltouo ?”brwbpifwqbMwwgswibpibyrwbyrtwwbdwo
 pyrwtwqbptl.oqbyrwbmlybjloypuouo byrwb.oipxltnbiywebyrpybrpqbgwwo
gtl. rybylbyrwdbkltbyrwutbgtwpfkpiya

“Ol,”bipuqbMwwgswiab“Rwbd.iybgwbpiswwmbnwya”

“Rwbuibolybuobyrwbr.y,”btwmsuwqbGs.gwtab“RwbxpibolybqwtwbxwobUbelfwb.ma”

“Rwbjpobypfwbjptwblkbrudiwsk,”b tleswqbYrtljf,btwi.duo bruibgtwpfkpiya
“Nl.’ssbsufwsnbkuoqbrudbeuyrbildwblkbyrwbspquwi,”bpoqbrwb tuoowqbuo
pmmtwjupyuloblkbruibsuyyswbvlfwblobFtpifu’ibewss-foleobewpfowiia

Yrwnbrpqbkuouirwqbyrwutbgtwpfkpiybpoqbewtwbpyywdmyuo bylbjldd.oujpyw
euyrbildwblkbyrwbepttulti,buobpobwkkltybylbswptoberwobyrwbjruwkbmtlmliwq
yrpybyrwnbirl.sqbiwybkltyrbkltbyrwbjlpiy,bpoqbiyussbFtpifubrpqbolybdpqw
pobpmmwptpojwabGnbyruibyudwbGs.gwtbepibjloiuqwtpgsnbjlojwtowq,bolybpy
pssbkltbFtpifu’ibipkwyn,bg.ybkltbruibleo,biuojw,bukbildwyruo bjl.sq
rpmmwobylbFtpifubuobyruibktuwoqsnbxussp wbuobyrwbiyussbepyjrwiblkbyrw
ou ry,bpbiudusptbkpywbdu ryblxwtypfwbrud,bpoqberwobrwbdpqwbyrui
i.  wiyulobylbyrwblyrwtibuyb pxwbyrwdbkllqbkltbyrl. ry,byll,bilbyrpy
yrwtwbewtwbyrtwwbtpyrwtbpmmtwrwoiuxwbdwoberlbil. rybpobp.quwojwbeuyrbyrw
jruwka

Gnbdwpoiblkbiu oibpoqbmuq uobWo suir,bpoqbquiyltywqbopyuxwbqupswjy,bp
eltqbltbyelblkberujrbwpjrblkbyrwbyrtwwb.oqwtiyllq,byrwnbdpop wqbyl
jloxwnbylbyrwbjruwkbyrwbuokltdpyulobyrpybFtpifubrpqbquipmmwptwq,bpoq
yrpybyrwnbepoywqbylbfoleberpybrpqbgwjldwblkbruda

Yrwbjruwkbepi,blkbjl.tiw,bpibd.jrbm.ccswqbpibyrwn,bpoqbuddwqupywsn
uoiyuy.ywqbpbyrltl. rbiwptjrblkbyrwbxussp w,beuyrbyrwbtwi.sybyrpybuybepi
illobkl.oqbyrpybFtpifubepibolybeuyruobyrwbmpsuipqw,bpoqbirltysn
pkywteptqbkllymtuoyibewtwbquijlxwtwqbswpquo byrtl. rbyrwbxussp wb pywepn
uoylbyrwbv.o swa

“_Dwuob lyy!_”bwhjspudwqbGs.gwt,b“rwbxwoybl.ybqwtw,b.oqbrwbxwoybpslow,
uobqwtbduqqswblkbqwtbou ryabRwbd.iybrpxwbgwwobjtpcna”

“ ltq!”bjtuwqbYrtljf,b“erpybquqbrwbepoybylbqlbyrpybklt?”

“Nl.bpuo’ybduiiwqbolyruo’,brpxwbnl.?”bpifwqbMwwgswiblkbyrwblyrwtbyela
“’Wbdu ryb’pxwbiylswobildwyruo’a”

“_Lu!bLu!_bXlybrpxwbxwb lybylbiywps?”bjtuwqbGs.gwtab“L.tb .oi,bl.t
pdd.ouyulo—qwnbptwbrwtwbgwiuqwb.iabRwbquqbolybypfwbyrwdabGwiuqwbqliwbxw
rpxwbolyruo blkbxps.wbwhjwmybdnbyxwoynb .uowpbi.uya”

“G.yberpybquqb’wbqlbuybklt?”bqwdpoqwqbMwwgswia

“’Wbd.iyb’pxwbgwwobepsfuo’buob’uibgsllduo’biswwm,”bipuqbYrtljfabPoqbyrpy
epibpibowptbylbpobwhmspopyuloblkbFtpifu’ibdniywtul.ibquipmmwptpojwbpi
yrwbyrtwwbjl.sqbtwpjrabPobrl.tbspywtbyrwnbiwybl.ybyleptqbyrwbjlpiyb.oqwt
yrwbmtlywjyuloblkbpbjldmponblkbyrwbjruwk’ibepttultia

Ftpifu,bruibtukswbis.o blxwtbruibirl.sqwt,bdlxwqbql  wqsnbpslo byrw
v.o swbytpus,bpbrwpxnbp.yldpyujbmuiylsb tpimwqbuobruibtu rybrpoqabRui
wptibewtwbjloiypoysnbiytpuowqbkltbyrwbkutiybuoyudpyuloblkbm.ti.uybpi
ewssbpibkltberpywxwtblyrwtbqpo wtibdu rybs.tfbgwkltwbltb.mlobwuyrwt
iuqwabPslowbuobyrwbdniywtul.ibv.o swbrwbepibwhmwtuwojuo bpbou rydptwblk
ywttlt,bpoqbeuyrbwpjrbduswbyrpybrwbytpxwswqbyrwbxps.wblkbyrwbqupdloqi
gwjpdwbswiibpoqbswiibgnbjldmptuilobeuyrbyrwbktu ryk.sbltqwpsbyrpybrw
twpsucwqbrwbd.iybmpiibyrtl. rbgwkltwbrwbjl.sqbrlmwbylbtwpjrbyrwbjlpiya

LojwbRuiypr,byrwbiopfw,bieuo uo bktldbpbsler.o bgtpojrbpjtliibyrwbytpus,
gpttwqbruibepn,bpoqbyrwbdpobqptwqbolybkutwbpybrudbkltbkwptblkbpyytpjyuo 
yrwbpyywoyuloblkbmliiugswbm.ti.wtibylbruibmliuyuloabRwbepibkltjwq,
yrwtwkltw,bylbdpfwbpbqwyl.tbyrtl. rbyrwbypo swqbdpiiblkb.oqwtgt.irberujr
 twebjsliwsnb.mlobwuyrwtbiuqwblkbyrwbopttlebytpusabErwobrwbtwpjrwqbuy
p puo,bgwnloqbyrwbiopfw,bruibjslyruo bepibdltwbyltobpoqbypyywtwqbyrpo
gwkltw,bpoqbruibkswirbepibijtpyjrwqbpoqbj.ybpoqbgswwquo bktldbyrw
uoo.dwtpgswbyrltoibmpiyberujrbrwbrpqbgwwobjldmwsswqbylbkltjwbruibepnabRw
epibilpfwqbeuyrbmwtimutpyulobpoqbmpoyuo bktldbwhrp.iyulo,bpoqbrui
jslyruo bepibkusswqbeuyrbpoyiberliwbxujul.ibpyypjfib.mlobruibkswir
twoqwtwqbrudbrpskbdpqbeuyrbmpuoa

Lojwbp puobuobyrwbjswptbrwbyltwbruibjslyruo bktldbrudbpoqbil. ry
ktpoyujpssnbylbtuqbrudiwskblkbyrwbylty.tuo bmwiyia

Ilbyrujfbewtwbyrwbdntupqbpoyib.mlobruibjslyruo byrpybrwbqptwqboly
pyywdmybylbtwjspudbuyabLosnbyrwbipjfblkbqupdloqi,bruibpdd.ouyulobpoqbrui
ewpmloibquqbrwbiopyjrbktldbyrwbtpxwouo brltqwberliwbo.dgwtibewtwbtpmuqsn
uojtwpiuo ,bpmmptwoysnbgnbdussuloi,bpibyrwnbil. rybylbp puobspnbrlsq
.mlobrudbpoqbqwxl.tbruda

Irpfuo byrwbg.sfblkbyrwbpoyibktldbyrwbptyujswibrwbrpqbtwytuwxwq,bFtpifu
qpirwqbdpqsnbpslo byrwbytpusbpibopfwqbpibyrwbqpnbrwbepibglto,bpoqberwo,
pbrpskbrl.tbspywt,biy.dgsuo bpoqbpybspiybkpssuo bwhrp.iywq,brwbspn
mpoyuo b.mlobyrwbqpdmbv.o swbwptyr,brwbtwpsucwqbyrwb.yywtbk.yusuynblk
ruibdpqbpyywdmybylbtwpjrbyrwbjlpiybpslow,bwxwobdltwbk.ssnbyrpobrwbwxwt
jl.sqbrpxwb.oqwtbponblyrwtbjutj.diypojwi,biuojwbyrwtwbuibolyruo byrpybil
mptpsncwibyrwbjl.tp wbpoqbiwsk-jlokuqwojwblkbpbjuxusucwqbdpobpibylbgw
qwmtuxwqblkbruibjslyruo a

Rlewxwtbijpoybyrwbmtlywjyulobyrpybdu rybrpxwbgwwobpkkltqwqbgnbyrwbylto
poqbypyywtwqb ptdwoyibrwbrpqbquijptqwq,brwbjl.sqbolybrpxwbkwsybdltw
rwsmswiibrpqbrwbsliybruibewpmloibpoqbpdd.ouyulobuoiywpq,bklt,bylbi.jrbpo
whywoybptwbewbyrwbjtwpy.twiblkbrpguybpoqbwoxutlodwoyabUybepi,byrwtwkltw,
pbywttukuwqbFtpifu,bpstwpqnbkltwqlldwqbylbkpus.tw,berlbjtpeswqbkwptk.ssn
pslo byrwbv.o swbytpusa

Yrpybou ry,br.o tnbpoqbjlsq,brwbiswmybuobyrwbjtlyjrblkbpb twpybytww
eruswbyrwbr.oyuo bjptouxltwbtlptwq,bpoqbjl. rwq,bpoqb tleswqbyrtl. rbyrw
gspjfowiiblkbyrwbv.o swbpgl.ybrudabIruxwtuo beuyrbywttltbrwbiyptywq
dldwoyptusnbylbkwptk.sbepfwk.sowii,bpoqberwo,bktldbwhrp.iyulo,brwbel.sq
qlcwbp puobuybepibolybylbtwiybg.ybylbqtwpdblkbrlttltibyrpybpbi.qqwobtlpt
el.sqbdwt wbuoylbtwpsuynabYr.ibyrwbslo brl.tiblkbpbktu ryk.sbou ry
qtp  wqbl.ybyrwutbywqul.ibswo yr,b.oyusbuybiwwdwqbyrpybqpeobel.sqbowxwt
jldwabG.ybjldwbuybquq,bpoqblojwbp puobrwbyllfb.mbruibiy.dgsuo bepn
yleptqbyrwbewiya

Twq.jwqbgnbkwptbpoqbkpyu .wbpoqbmpuobylbpbiypywbgltqwtuo b.mlobrpsk
jloijul.iowii,brwbgs.oqwtwqblo,beuyrbwpjrbmpiiuo brl.tbgwjlduo 
mwtjwmyugsnbewpfwt,bkltbrwbrpqbgwwobeuyrl.ybkllqbltbepywtbiuojwbrwbrpq
qwiwtywqbruibjldmpouloibdltwbyrpobyrutynbrl.tibgwkltwa

Ollobepibpmmtlpjruo abFtpifubepibdlxuo bg.ybislesnbolebeuyrbktwz.woy
twiyi,bpoqbuybepibq.tuo blowblkbyrwiwbyrpybyrwtwbjpdwbylbruibo.dgwq
iwoiugusuyuwibpobuoiuiywoybi.  wiyuloblkbyrwbxlujwiblkbr.dpobgwuo iboly
kptbquiypoyabZ.ujfsnbrwbirllfbrudiwskbpoqbpyywdmywqbylbjlojwoytpywbrui
epouo bkpj.syuwiabRwbsuiywowqbuoywoysn,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbeuyrbpbtwowepsblk
iytwo yrbrwbptliwbylbruibkwwya

Yrwtwbepibolbql.gybpgl.ybuyabRwbrwptqbxlujwibg.ybpbirltybquiypojwbpepn
poqbyrwnbil.oqwqbolybsufwbyrwbylowiblkbopyuxwi,bg.ybtpyrwtbyrliwblk
W.tlmwpoiabNwybrwbepibiyussbjptwk.s,bpoqbilbrwbjtpeswqbjp.yul.isn
klteptq,b.oyusbpybpby.touo blkbyrwbytpusbrwbipebgwkltwbrudbpbjswptuo 
qlyywqbeuyrbytwwiberujrbgltqwtwqbyrwbgpofiblkbpbd.qqnbiytwpdabOwptbyrw
wq wblkbyrwbtuxwtbepibpbidpssbr.ybyrpyjrwqbeuyrb tpiiwibpoqbi.ttl.oqwq
gnbpbt.qwbmpsuipqwbpoqbk.tyrwtbmtlywjywqbgnbpobl.ywtbgldpblkbyrlto
g.irwia

Uybepibktldbyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbr.ybyrpybyrwbxlujwibewtwbjlduo ,bpoq
olebrwbjswptsnbquijwtowqbpbeldpo’ibxlujwbtpuiwqbuobmtlywiybpoqbuobpo wt,
poqbtwmsnuo bylbuybyrwbqwwmbxlujwblkbpbdpoa

IslesnbyrwbwnwiblkbJptsbFtpifubewoybeuqwbuobuojtwq.suyn,bolyb.oduhwq
euyrbywttlt,bkltbyrwbylowiblkbyrwbxlujwblkbyrwbdpobrwbrwptqbewtwbyrw
ylowiblkbyrwbqwpqbWiywgpobDutpoqp,bpoqbyrwbxlujwblkbyrwbeldpobepibyrpy
lkbyrwbduiiuo bKsltpbRpefwi,berldbrwbrpqbslo biuojwb uxwob.mbpibqwpq
psilabG.ybJptsbFtpifubepibolb twpybgwsuwxwtbuobyrwbi.mwtopy.tpsa
Quiwdglquwqbimutuyibowwqbolbr.yibltbmpsuipqwi,bltbgldpiblkbyrltoiabYrw
leowtiblkbyrliwbxlujwibewtwbpibsuxw—pibdpywtups—pibrwa

Rwbiyptywqbklteptqbyleptqbyrwbr.y,bruibrpytwqblkbWiywgpobpoqbrui
vwpsl.inbpsdliybklt lyywobuobyrwbtwsuwkbrwbkwsybuobyrwbtwpsucpyulobyrpy
rwbepibylbp puobrpxwbyrwbjldmpouloirumblkbjtwpy.twiblkbruibleobfuoqabRw
rpqbdlxwq,brlewxwt,bg.ybpbkwebiywmibktldbyrwbwq wblkbyrwbv.o swberwobyrw
eldpo’ibxlujwbjpdwbp puobylbruibwpt,bpoqbeuyrbuybyrwbi.qqwobtwpsucpyulo
lkbruibopfwqowiiabRwbmp.iwqbuobyrl. ry,bsllfuo bpgl.ybrud,bpoqbmtwiwoysn
rwbepibg.iusnbwo p wqb pyrwtuo byrwbslo ,bgtlpq-swpxwqbv.o swb tpiiwi,
ktldberujrbrwbkpgtujpywqbpbt.qwbg.ybiwtxujwpgswbifuty,berujrbrwbkpiywowq
pgl.ybruibepuiybeuyrbpbyeuiywqbtlmwblkbyrwbipdwbdpywtupsabYrwobeuyrbp
kwwsuo blkbtwowewqbjlokuqwojwbrwbdlxwqbklteptqbyleptqbyrwbr.yabKwptuo 
yrpybyrwnbdu rybolybtwjl oucwbrudbpybkutiy,bpoq,bypfuo brudbkltbpo
wowdn,bpyypjfbrud,bFtpifu,bgwkltwbrwbtwpjrwqbyrwbwoytpojwbylbyrw
mpsuipqw,bjpsswqbWiywgpobgnbopdwabUddwqupywsnbyrwbImpouptqbjpdwbktldbyrw
r.y,bklsslewqbgnbyrwb utsabRpqbFtpifubolybrwptqbruibxlujwbpoqbtwjl oucwq
rudbgnbuy,brwbel.sqbrpxwbyrl. rybrudbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bilbjsliwbepi
yrwbtwdptfpgswbtwiwdgspojwa

Kltbpbdldwoybyrwbyelbiyllqbsllfuo bpybyrwbiytpo wbpmmptuyulobgwkltw
yrwda

“Qlo’ybnl.bfolebdw?”bpifwqbFtpifuab“UbpdbJpts—JptsbFtpifuabNl.bfolebdw,
Ksltpa”

“Jpts!”bwhjspudwqbyrwb uts,bpoqbiyptywqbylbswpmbklteptq,bg.ybWiywgpo
 tpimwqbrwtbgnbyrwbetuiybpoqbrwsqbrwtbgpjfa

“Erpybptwbnl.bqluo brwtw,bFtpifu?”bpifwqbyrwbImpouptqbuobpbi.tsnbylowa

“Ubpdbytnuo bylbdpfwbdnbepnbylbyrwbjlpiy,”btwmsuwqbyrwbT.iiupoab“Ubpd
owptsnbqwpqbktldbiyptxpyulobpoqbwhmli.twa”

“Yrwbepnbylbyrwbjlpiybuibyrwtw,”bipuqbyrwbImpouptq,bpoqbmluoywqbqleobyrw
ytpusbyleptqbyrwbewiyab“Fwwmbdlxuo ,bFtpifu,buybuibolybrwpsyrnbkltbnl.
rwtwa”

“Nl.bdwpobylbipnbyrpybnl.beussbiwoqbdwblobeuyrl.ybkllqbltbepywt?”
qwdpoqwqbyrwbT.iiupoa

“Yrwtwbuibepywt,”bipuqbWiywgpo,bmluoyuo bpybyrwbtuxwt,b“poqbyrwbv.o sw
uibk.ssblkbkllqbkltblowbeuyrbi.kkujuwoybjl.tp wbpoqbuoywssu wojwbyl
 pyrwtbuya”

“Nl.bjpoolybiwoqbrudbpepn,”bjtuwqbyrwb utsab“Ubquqbolybyruofbuybmliiugsw
yrpybwxwobnl.bjl.sqbgwbilbjt.ws,”bpoqbyrwo,by.touo bylbyrwbT.iiupo,b“L
Jpts,”birwbjtuwq,b“qlbolyb labIpxwbdw!bIpxwbdwbktldbyruibgwpiy!”

“Yrwobiypoqbpiuqw,”bjtuwqbFtpifu,bpoqbpibyrwb utsbetwojrwqbrwtiwskbktww
ktldbyrwb tpimblkbDutpoqpbyrwbT.iiupobswxwswqbruibp.yldpyujbpoqbkutwq
mluoy-gspofbpybyrwbImpouptqabYrwbg.sswybduiiwqbuyibypt wy;byrwbwdmyn
irwssbvpddwqbuobyrwbgtwpjrbpoqbpibFtpifubm.sswqbyrwbytu  wtbp puobeuyr
olbtwi.sybrwb spojwqbpybruibewpmlobpoq,bquijlxwtuo buyib.iwswiiowii,
r.tswqbuybktldbrudbeuyrbpoblpyrabPibrwbiytlxwbktpoyujpssnbylbgtuo brui
tukswbuoylbpjyulobWiywgpobyrtwebgpjfbruibimwptbrpoqbeuyrbyrwbirlty,
rwpxnbimwptbyrpybrwbrpqbswptowqbgnbolebilbewssbylb.iw,bpoqbgwkltwbyrw
lyrwtbjl.sqbmtwiibyrwbytu  wtblkbruibtukswbyrwbgptgwqbirpkybyltwbyrtl. r
ruibjrwiybpoqbrwptyabEuyrl.ybpbil.oqbJptsbFtpifubipofbqwpqbpybyrwbklly
lkbruibwowdnbpoqbruibtuxps,beruswbyrwbeldpobglyrbrpqbslxwq,bwpjrbuobrui
leobiwskuirbltbgt.ypsbepn,bipofbilgguo bylbyrwb tl.oqbuobyrwbspiybpoq
qwwmwiybqwmyriblkbqwimputa

Iwwuo byrpybyrwblyrwtbepibqwpq,bWiywgpobiywmmwqbklteptqbpoqbetwojrwqbrui
imwptbktldbFtpifu’ibglqnbpoqbpsilbtwsuwxwqbruibqwpqbwowdnblkbrui
pdd.ouyulobpoqbewpmloiabPibrwbquqbilbruibwnwibkwssb.mlobpbsuyyswbgp 
dpqwblkbifuoiberujrbFtpifubrpqbkpiywowqbylbruibepuiybgnbyrwb tpiibtlmw
rwbrpqbtwjwoysnbkpirulowqbylb.mrlsqbruibmtuduyuxwbifutya

YrwbImpouptqbkwsyblkbyrwbgp bpoqbytuwqbylbku .twbl.ybyrwbopy.twblkbuyi
jloywoyi,bjlduo bylbyrwbjlojs.iulobyrpybuybepibpdd.ouyulo,bg.ybrwbquq
olybwhpduowbuybjsliwsnb.oyusbrwbrpqbjpttuwqbyrwbqwpqbdpo’ibewpmloibuoyl
ruibr.y,berwtwbrwbrpqbpsilbypfwobyrwb uts,berlbjtl.jrwqbuobpbjltowt,
ilgguo a

“MlltbJpts!bMlltbJpts!”birwbdlpowq,bpoqbyrwobylbyrwbdpobkpjuo brwt:b“Nl.
gwpiy!”

“Nwi,”brwbjtuwq,beuyrbpbsp. r,b“UbpdbpbgwpiyabUbpdbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,
poqbyrpybqutynbT.iiupobqptwqbylbjpssbdwbWiywgpoabUbpdbYptcpo!bUbpd
YptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi!”brwbtwmwpywqbuobpbsl.qbijtwpdab“Erlbqptwibjpssbdw
lyrwteuiwbquwiabUbeussbirlebyrwdabUbeussbirlebyrwd,”brwbd.dgswqa

Yrwb utsbsllfwqbpybrudbeuyrbeuqwbpoqbkspduo bwnwibpoqbir.qqwtwqa

“Dpq,”birwbd.yywtwqab“Dpq!bDnb lq—pslowbuobyrwbv.o swbeuyrbpbdpoupj!”
Poq,buobyt.yr,buoblowbtwimwjybepibWiywgpobDutpoqpbdpq—dpqbeuyrbyrw
dpqowiiblkbyrwbptyuiyberlbsuxwibyrwbmptybrwbmspniabPoqbkltbilbslo ,bole,
rpqbWiywgpobDutpoqpbmspnwqbyrwbmpty,bpoqbilbtwpssnbmtlkujuwoybrpqbrw
gwjldwbuobruibuoywtmtwypyuloblkbyrwbolgswbjrptpjywt,byrpybrwbgwsuwxwq
rudiwskbYptcpo,bpoqbuobl.yeptqbpmmwptpojwbrwbdu rybrpxwbqwjwuxwqbyrw
pmw-dpo’ibgwiybktuwoqabG.ybeuyruobyrpyb lqsufwbkltdbepibyrwbrwptyblkbp
j.tbpoqbyrwbil.sblkbpbjtpxwoa

“Rwbel.sqbrpxwbiylswobYptcpo’ibdpyw,”bd.yywtwqbWiywgpoab“Yptcpo,bSltqblk
yrwbV.o sw!bQuqbnl.biwwbrlebUbiswebrud,beuyrbpbiuo swbirpky?bNl.bjl.sq
slxwbpbewpfsuo ,bjl.sqbnl.,berwobnl.bjl.sqbrpxwbyrwbslxwblkbyrwb twpy
Yptcpo!”

“Ubslpyrwbnl.,”bipuqbyrwb utsab“Nl.bptwbuoqwwqbpbgwpiyabNl.bptwbslewt
yrpobyrwbgwpiyia”

“Nl.bptwbduow,byrl. r,”bipuqbyrwbImpouptq,b“poqbnl.birpssbowxwtbgw
polyrwt’i—kutiybUbel.sqbfussbnl.—g.ybswyb.ibiwwberpybyrwbT.iiupobrpq
uobruibsuyyswbgp blkbruqwi,buybkwwsibsufwbpdd.ouyulobwol. rbylbfussbp
tw udwoy,”bpoqbrwb.oyuwqbyrwbyrlo ibyrpybrwsqbyrwbdl.yrblkbyrwbgp 
jsliwqbpoqbswybildwblkbyrwbjloywoyibimussbl.yb.mlobyrwbkslltblkbyrwbr.ya
Pibyrwbimptfsuo biylowibtlsswqbijuoyusspoybgwkltwbyrwutbpiylouirwqbwnwi,
yrwb utsb pimwqbuobuojtwq.suyna

“RlsnbDptn!”bwhjspudwqbyrwbImpouptq,b“yrwnbptwbqupdloqia”

“R.oqtwqiblkbyrwd,”bd.td.twqbyrwb utsab“Erwtwbjl.sqbrwbrpxwb lyywo
yrwd?”

“UbqlbolybfolebpoqbUbqlbolybjptw,”bipuqbWiywgpoab“YrwnbptwbduowabYrwn
ptwbpssbduow—Ubpdbtujr,bKsltpabUbpdbtujr,bpoqbukbnl.bptwbpb llqb uts
nl.birpssbirptwbdnbewpsyrbeuyrbdwa”

KsltpbRpefwi’ibwnwibopttlewqabPepfwowqbeuyruobrwtbgtwpiybepibyrw
psepni-mtwiwoyb twwqbyrpybqlduopywqbrwtbgwuo ,bpoqbgwiuqwbuy,bpoq
wz.pssnbpibmlewtk.sbolebylbqlduopywbrwt,brwtbrpytwqbkltbyrwbImpouptqa
Jl.sqbrwbrpxwbfoleobuy,bmliiwiiuloblkbyrliwb swpduo bgp.gswibrpq
jtniypssucwqbpybspiybuobyrwbduoqblkbyrwbeldpobpbqwywtduopyulobirwbrpq
slo bkliywtwqbylbispnbyrwbImpouptqberuswbrwbiswmyabRwtwylkltwbirwbrpq
gwwobpktpuqblkbgwuo bswkybpslowbuobyrwbv.o sw,bg.ybolebyrwbqwiutwbyl
mliiwiibyruib twpybewpsyrblxwtjpdwbrwtbywttlta

Yptcpo,btpo uo byrwbv.o sw,bmujfwqb.mbyrwbytpusblkbyrwbxptul.ibgpoqiblk
ewiybjlpiybglnibpoqbyrwbkswwuo bispxwiblkbyrwbqwpqbPtpgi,bpoq
lxwtrp.suo bwpjrbuoby.tobrwbmtliwj.ywqbruibiwptjrbkltbS.xuou,bpeuo byrw
gspjfibuoylbyt.yrk.sowiibpoqbswpxuo byrwdbuobpbiypywblkbywttltberwobrw
qwmptywqabWpjrbpoqbwxwtnblow,byrwnbylsqbrudbyrwbipdwbiyltnabYrwtwbepi
olowberlbrpqbiwwobS.xuoubiuojwbyrwbou ryblkbyrwbgpyyswbpoqbyrwbkutw,bpoq
wpjrbepibmliuyuxwbyrpybrwbd.iybrpxwbwijpmwqbeuyrbildwblyrwtbgpoqa

Ilbyrltl. rsnbljj.muwqbrpqbyrwbpmw-dpo’ibduoqbgwwobq.tuo byrwbmpiybkwe
qpnibeuyrbruibilttlebpoqbruibiwptjrbyrpybswiiwtbjloiuqwtpyuloibrpqb low
ow swjywq,beuyrbyrwbtwi.sybyrpybrwbrpqbolybolywqbyrpybyrwbgp bjloypuouo 
yrwbqupdloqibepibduiiuo abUobkpjy,brwbrpqbmtpjyujpssnbklt lyywobyrw
qupdloqiberwo,bgnbyrwbdwtwiybxp ptnblkbjrpojwbruibduoqbrpmmwowqbyl
twxwtybylbyrwd,bpoqbyrwobuybepibyrpybrwbi.qqwosnbtwpsucwqbyrpybyrwnbewtw
duiiuo ,bg.yberwobrwbrpqbsliybyrwd,bltbyrwbjutj.diypojwibi.ttl.oquo byrw
slii,brwbjl.sqbolybtwjpssa

“YrliwbtpijpssnbW.tlmwpoi,”brwbd.yywtwqbylbVpq-gps-vp,b“yrwnbd.iybrpxw
ypfwobyrwd,”bpoqbi.qqwosnbeuyrbyrwbyrl. rybyrwbijptswybijptbkspdwq
gtussupoysnb.mlobruibkltwrwpq,bpibv.iybpo wtbewsswqbeuyruobrudbp puoiy
yrwbmwtkuqnbpoqbuo tpyuy.qwblkbyrwbdwobrwbrpqbi.jjltwqab“Jldw,”brwbipuq
ylbVpq-gps-vp,b“pibewbiwptjrbkltbS.xuoubewbirpssbiwptjrbkltbyrwiwblyrwti
psila”bPoqbilbuybepibyrpybMwwgswibpoqbYrtljfbpoqbGs.gwtbrpqbytpxwswqbg.y
pbirltybquiypojwbyleptqbyrwbjlpiyberwo,bq.tuo bpbollo-qpnbrpsy,byrwn
ewtwbi.tmtuiwqbylbiwwbyrwbku .twblkbyrwbpmw-dpobdlxuo bdpvwiyujpssn
yleptqbyrwdberusw,bpybruibiuqw,bmpjwqbyrwb twpy,bgspjf-dpowqbsuloa

Yptcpobdpqwbolbpjfoleswq dwoyblkbyrwutbwh.gwtpoyb twwyuo ,bg.ybjpdw
klteptqbuobiuswojwbylbiypoqbpybspiybeuyrbklsqwqbptdibgwkltwbyrwdabYrwtw
epibpb tud,bpjj.iuo bwhmtwiiulob.mlobruibjl.oywopojwbyrpybgtl. rybyrw
jrussblkbkwptbylbGs.gwt’ibjleptqsnbrwpty,bpoqbgspojrwqbyrwbkpjwiblkbyrw
yelbrptqwowqbWo suirbm. ia

“Erpybuibuy?”byrwnbjrlt.iwqab“Erpybuibetlo ?bErpybrpibrpmmwowq?”

“Ubrpxwbjldwbkltbyrwbgp blkbiylowibnl.byllfbktldbdw,”bipuqbYptcpo
iudmsna

Wpjrblkbyrwbyrtwwbwnwqbruibjldmpoulobi.imujul.isna

“Ubqlbolyb.oqwtiypoqbxlybnl.bdwpo,bDtabYptcpo,”bm.ttwqbGs.gwt,bt.gguo 
ruibmpsdibyl wyrwtab“Ubpdbi.twbqwtwbuibildwbduiypfw,b.oswii—”brwbjpiybp
k.tyuxwbpoqbi.imujul.ib spojwbuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbMwwgswibpoqbYrtljfa

“Ubqlo’ybfolebolyruo’bpgl.ybolbgp blkbiylowi,”bipuqbMwwgswi,b“g.ybUbeuss
ipnbpib’lebnl.bjpo’ybyt.iybolbVwea”

“Ubqlo’ybyt.iybponblkbnl.,”bipuqbYptcpoab“Ubeussb uxwbnl.bkuxwbiwjloqi
ylbrpoqblxwtbyrwbgp blkbiylowi,bpoqbukbnl.bqlo’ybmtlq.jwbuybuobyrpybyudw
Ubirpssbrpxwbnl.byrltl. rsnbiwptjrwqa”

“I.tw,”bjtuwqbGs.gwt,b“iwptjrbdw,biwptjrbdw,bgnbpssbdwpoiabXn,bDta
Yptcpo,bUbxl.sqo’ybypfwbolyyuo bktldbnl.bkltbolyyuo a”

“Yrwtw’ibildwyruo betlo brwtw,”b tleswqbYrtljfab“Ubpuo’yb lybolyruo’blk
nl.tibpoqbU’dbi.twbyrwiwbyelbrpxwo’ybowuyrwta”

“Erwtwbuibyrwblyrwt?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Lr,bFtpifu?bRwbquipmmwptwqbyrwbipdwbou rybnl.bgtl. ryb.ibylbyrpy
xussp wabEwbrpuo’ybiwwobrudbiuojw—yrpy’ibuy;bUb lybuybole—ewbeloqwtwq
ernbrwbswky,bpoqbolebUbiwwbuybpibmspuobpibyrwbkpjwblobdwboliwabUybepi
rudbyrpybiylswbyrpybgp blkbiylowiabYrpy’iberpybrwbqlowabEw’xwbgwwo
ytnuo’bylbku .twbl.ybwxwtbiuojwbrwbswkyberpybrwbiylsw,bpoqbolebUbiwwbuy
mspuobwol. ra”

“I.tw,”bwhjspudwqbMwwgswiab“Yrpy’ibuy,bpoqb’wtwbewbptw,b’obyrpy’ibyrpya”

“Xwbdu rybrpxwbfolewqbuy,bxwbdu rybrpxwbfolewqbuy,”bp twwqbGs.gwta

“G.ybowxwtyrwswiibU’db luo bylbrpxwbnl.bpssbiwptjrwq,”bipuqbYptcpo,bpoq
erwobyrwbrwpq-dpobjpdwbpoqbYptcpobrpqbwhmspuowqberpybrwbqwiutwq,byrw
yrtwwberuywibewtwbz.ujfsnbiytummwqbpoqbiwptjrwqabWxwobyrwutbkwe
gwslo uo ibewtwbyrltl. rsnb lowbyrtl. r,bg.ybolbgp blkbiylowibepi
twxwpswqa

Euyrl.ybpbeltqbYptcpoby.towqbgpjfbyleptqbyrwbv.o sw,bpoqbuobpolyrwt
dldwoybyrwbgspjfibpoqbyrwbyrtwwbW.tlmwpoibipebyrwbswpknbiwpblkbklsup w
iepsslebyrwbpmw-dpobpoqbyrwb lsqwobsuloa

“ ltqbrwsmbFtpifu!”bwhjspudwqbMwwgswia

“Elybqlbnwtbi.mmliwbrwbepoyibeuyrbpbgp bl’biylowi?”buoz.utwqbYrtljfab“’W
d.iybgwbpbguybgpsdn,bU’ssbipna”

“Gpsdnbo.qquo ,”bwhjspudwqbGs.gwtab“Qwtwbuibg.ybx.obfuoqblkbiylowibuo
PktujpbxlybFtpifubel.sqbiywpsbpoqbt.oblkkbuoylbqwtbv.o swbpslow
duy—qupdloqia”

MwwgswibpoqbYrtljfblmwowqbyrwutbwnwibuobi.tmtuiwab“YrwbqpdowqbT.iiupo!”
whjspudwqbyrwbkltdwtab“Rwbql.gsw-jtliiwqb.i,byrpy’iberpyb’wbquqa”

“Rwbsufwsnbpibolybipxwqbl.tbsuxwi,bipnibru,”bipuqbYrtljfab“Ukbyruibpmw
kwsswtbrpqbkl.oqbFtpifubpoqbyrwbqupdloqibeuyrb.ibew’qblkbpssbi.kkwtwq
psufw—nl.bjl.sqo’yb’p’bdpqwb’udbgwsuwxwbewbquqo’yb’pxwbpb’poqbuobuya
PoqbFtpifubel.sqo’yb’p’bqlowbolyruo’bylbrwsmb.ibl.ya”

“Ub’lmwib’wbjpyjrwibyrwbgw  pt!”bwhjspudwqbMwwgswi,bkwtxwoysna

Yrwnbewtwbiyptyswqbuoylbiuswojwbpbdldwoybspywtbgnbyrwbiu ryblkbYptcpo
twy.touo bylbyrwbjpdm,bg.ybrwbmpuqbolbpyywoyulobylbyrwberuywi,b luo 
uoiywpqbqutwjysnbylbyrwbrwpq-dpo,beuyrberldbrwbjlokwttwqbkltbiwxwtps
duo.ywiabYrwo,blojwbdltw,brwby.towqbpoqbswkya

Pjyuo blobuokltdpyulob puowqbktldbyrwbrwpq-dpo,bYptcpobiyt.jfblkk
yrtl. rbyrwbv.o swbuobyrwb wowtpsbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbxussp wberwtwbrwbrpq
swkybyrwbkl.tberuywibuobjrpt wblkbyrwbjruwk,bpoqbktldberujrbFtpifubrpq
spywtbwijpmwqbpslowabRwbdlxwqbtpmuqsn,bswpxuo bVpq-gps-vpbylbklssle
gwruoq,bjlxwtuo byrwbquiypojwbylbyrwbxussp wbuobpbjldmptpyuxwsnbirlty
yudw,biuojwbrwbdlxwqbpsdliybuobpobputbsuowbyrtl. rbyrwbytwwi,berwtw
yrwtwbepibolbdpyywqb.oqwt tleyrbylbudmwqwbruibmtl twiia

L.yiuqwbyrwbxussp wb pywbrwbyllfb.mbFtpifu’ibimllt,bolebpsdliy
lgsuywtpywq,buybuibyt.w,bg.ybiyussbsw ugswbylbyrwbfwwobmwtjwmyuxw
kpj.syuwiblkbyrwbpmw-dpoabYruibrwbklsslewqbieukysn,biuojwbFtpifubrpq
js.o bywopjul.isnbylbyrwblmwobytpusbyrpybel.oqbuobpb wowtpsbewiyeptq
qutwjyuloa

Yrwbi.obrpqbqtlmmwqbpsdliybylbyrwbewiywtobytww-ylmi,berwobYptcpobjpdw
i.qqwosnb.mlobpbjswptuo bgwiuqwbpbis.  uirbiytwpd,bowptbyrwbgpofiblk
erujrbiyllqbpbidpss,bt.qwbr.y,bi.ttl.oqwqbgnbpbmpsuipqwbpoqbpbyrlto
gldpa

Yrwbpmw-dpobmp.iwqbpoqbsuiywowq,bioukkuo byrwbputbeuyrbruibiwoiuyuxw
oliytusi,bpoqbyrwobloboluiwswiibkwwybrwbjtliiwqbyrwbjswptuo byleptqbyrw
r.yabUobyrwb tpiibl.yiuqwbyrwbmpsuipqwbspnbyrwbqwpqbglqnblkbpberuywbdpo,
poqbpbiuo swb spojwbylsqbyrwbpmw-dpobyrpybuybepibyrwbk. uyuxwberldbrw
il. ryabUoiypoysnbrwbtwpsucwqbyrwbk.yusuynblkbiwptjruo byrwbjltmiwbklt
yrwbgp blkbqupdloqi,biuojwbuybepibpbkltw lowbjlojs.iulobyrpybyrwnbewtw
olebuobyrwbmliiwiiuloblkberlwxwtbrpqbispuobyrwbT.iiupoabPbmwtk.ojyltn
whpduopyulobtwxwpswqbyrwbkpjybyrpybrwbepibtu rybuobilbkptbpibyrwbpgiwojw
lkbyrwbqupdloqibepibjlojwtowqa

Glyrbuoiuqwbyrwbr.ybpoqbl.yiuqwbyrwbmpsuipqwbewtwbuoqujpyuloiblkbyrw
twjwoybmtwiwojwblkbpbdpobpoqbeldpo,byrwbimlltblkbyrwbkltdwtbypssnuo 
euyrbyrpyblkbyrwbjtwpy.twberlbrpqbfusswqb lg.,byrwb twpybpmw,bpoqbr.oywq
Gptp,byrwbqwwt,b.mlobyrwbmtwiwtxwiblkbyrwbpmw-dpoabG.ybyrwbeldpo—erl
epibirw?bUybepibwxuqwoybyrpybirwbrpqbgwwobepsfuo b.mlobiltw,byutwqbkwwy,
poqbyrpybuobsuw.blkbirlwibirwbeltwbgpoqp wiblkbjslyra

Yptcpobklsslewqbyrwbimlltblkbyrwbdpobpoqbyrwbeldpoberwtwbuybswqbktldbyrw
r.ybuoylbyrwbv.o swabPibuybmtl twiiwqbuybgwjpdwbpmmptwoybyrpybyrwbeldpo
rpqbgwwobsp  uo bgwruoq,bpoqbyrpybirwbrpqbjlddwojwqbylbsudmbdltwbpoq
dltwbmpuok.ssnabRwtbmtl twiibepibxwtnbisle,bpoqbYptcpobjl.sqbiwwbyrpy
yrwbdpobrpqbolybepuywqbkltbrwt,bg.ybyrpybrwbrpqbgwwo,buobildwbmspjwi,bp
jloiuqwtpgswbquiypojwbprwpqblkbrwta

PoqbilbuybepibyrpybWiywgpobrpqbklt wqbkptbprwpqblkbKsltpbRpefwi,berliw
gt.uiwqbpoqbgswwquo bkwwybel.sqbijptjwbi.mmltybrwta

“Epuybkltbdw,bWiywgpo,”birwbrpqbmswpqwqab“QlbolybqwiwtybdwabQlbolybswpxw
dwbpslowbrwtwbuobyruibywttugswbv.o swa”

“Yrwobfwwmb.mbeuyrbdw,”b tleswqbyrwbImpouptqab“Qlbnl.byruofbyrpybeuyr
yruibklty.owbuobdnbmliiwiiulobUbpdb luo bylbepuybrwtwbkltwxwtbuobyrw
duqqswblkbyrwbv.o swbkltbildwlowbylbjldwbpoqbypfwbuybpepnbktldbdw?bOl,bU
pdb luo blobylbyrwbjlpiybpibkpiybpibUbjpoabUkbnl.bjpobfwwmb.m,bewssbpoq
 llqabUkbnl.bjpooly,byrpybuibnl.tbleobsllfl.ya”

“G.ybnl.bjl.sqbolybqwiwtybdwabWxwobnl.,bWiywgpo,bjl.sqbolybgwbi.jrbp
gwpiybpkywtbpssbyrpybnl.brpxwbkltjwqbdwbylbqlbkltbnl.a”

YrwbImpouptqbsp. rwqab“Nl.bptwbolyruo bdltwbylbdw,”brwbipuq,b“yrpobpo
lsqb slxwabEuyrbyrui,”bpoqbrwbrwsqbyrwbipjfblkbqupdloqibgwkltwbrud,b“U
jpobm.tjrpiwbyrwbkuowiyb slxwibuobyrwbjpmuypsiblkbyrwbeltsq—owe
 slxwi,”bpoqbrwbsp. rwqb tudsnbpybruibsuyyswbvlfwa

“Wiywgpo,bWiywgpo,”birwbjtuwq,b“jldwbgpjf,bjldwbgpjfabUbjpob lbol
kptyrwtabQlbolybswpxwbdwabMswpiwbjldwbgpjfbpoqbipxwbdwa”bG.ybrwblosn
sp. rwqbpybrwt,bpoqbpibpby.toblkbyrwbytpusbir.ybrudbktldbrwtbiu ry,birw
ipofbrwsmswiibpoqbwhrp.iywqbylbyrwb tl.oqa




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHH
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYRWbQWPQbTWY.TO


YRPYbou rybWiywgpobdpqwbruibslowsnbjpdmbgwiuqwbpbv.o swbytpusbyrpybel.oq
yrtl. rbyrwbqtnbepirblkbpoblsqbtuxwtbgwq,bpslo berujrbpbyuonbtux.swy
iyussbytujfswq,bpkkltquo byrwbImpouptqbyrwbepywtberujrbrwbjtpxwqa

Yrwblgiwiiuloberujrbmliiwiiwqbrudbyrpybrwbepibuobyt.yrbYptcpoblkbyrw
Pmwi,budmptywqbylbrudbpbkpsiwbjl.tp w,bilbyrpybrwbjl.sqbjpdmbpslowb.mlo
yrwb tl.oqbeuyrl.ybtwjl.tiwbylbptyukujupsbmtlywjyuloblkbponbfuoq,bpoq
klty.owbrpqbkpxltwqbrudbuobyruibtwimwjybuobyrpybuybrpqbiwoybolbmtlesuo 
gwpiyiblkbmtwnbylbkuoqbrudb.mlobyrliwbljjpiuloibyrpybrwbrpqbqptwqbyll
d.jrabQ.tuo byrwbmwtulqbyrpybKsltpbRpefwibrpqbgwwobeuyrbrudbrwbrpqbg.usy
irwsywtibkltbrwt,bg.ybolebyrpybrwbrpqbqwiwtywqbrwtbpoqbepibp puobpslow,
rwbjl.sqboly,buobyrwbtôswbyrpybrwbrpqbpii.dwq,bjloiuqwtbilbwkkwduopywbpo
pjybpibyrwbg.usquo blkbwxwobpbyrltobgldpbkltbmtlywjyulobq.tuo byrw
qptfowiiblkbyrwbou rya

Rwbquq,brlewxwt,bg.usqbpbkutw,bkltbrwbrpqbdpqwbpbfussbpoqbrpqbolybnwy
twpjrwqbpbmluoyblkbmtuduyuxwbipxp wtnberujrbmwtduyywqbrudbwxwobyl
udp uowbyrpybrwbwovlnwqbtpebdwpya

Rpxuo bqwxl.twqberpybdwpybrwbepoywqbpoqbkusswqbrudiwskbpybyrwbsuyysw
tux.swy,bWiywgpobjpdwbgpjfbpoqbiz.pyywqbgwkltwbruibkutw,berwtwbrwbqtwe
yrwbml.jrblkbqupdloqibktldbruibsluobjslyrbpoq,blmwouo buy,bimusswqbp
rpoqk.sblkbyrwbmtwjul.ib wdibuoylbruibmpsdabYrwbksujfwtuo bkutwsu ry
mspnuo b.mlobyrwdbiwoybijuoyusspoyb swpdibirllyuo buoylbyrwbqptfblkbyrw
i.ttl.oquo bv.o swbou rybpibyrwbImpouptqbswybpbyuonbiytwpdblkbyrw
imptfsuo biylowibytujfswbktldblowbrpoqbylbyrwblyrwt,bpoqbuobyrwbmtwyyn
mspnblkbsu rybyrwbImpouptqbipebxuiuloiblkbyrwbk.y.tw—mlewt,bs.h.tn,
gwp.yuk.sbeldwo—pssbyrpyb twpybewpsyrbdu rybm.tjrpiwbkltbpbdpoabEuyr
rpskbjsliwqbwnwibrwbqtwpdwqblkbyrwbuqwpsbyrpybrwbirl.sqbiwptjrbyrwbeltsq
lxwtbylblgypuo—yrwbqtwpd-eldpobkltberldbrwbrpqbpsepnibiwptjrwq—yrw
qtwpd-eldpobrwbrpqbowxwtbkl.oq,byrwbkuybjldmpoulobkltbi.jrbpibWiywgpo
Dutpoqpbudp uowqbrudiwskbylbgwabMtwiwoysnbyrtl. rbyrwbqptfbspirwibyrpy
xwuswqbruibopttlewqbsuqibyrwbImpouptqbiwwdwqbylbiwwbgwkltwbrudbuobyrw
ksujfwtuo bsu ryblkbruibjpdmkutwbpbxp .wbdpywtupsucpyuloblkbyrwbku .tw
lkbruibqtwpd—pbeldpo’ibku .tw,bjslyrwqbuobksleuo bqupmrpol.iberuyw
erujrbpmmwptwqbylbrlxwtbv.iybpglxwbrudbpybyrwbl.ywtbtudblkbruibkutwsu ry
pybyrwbi.dduyblkbyrwbpojuwoybtuxwtbgpofa

Uybepibiytpo wbrlebyrwbxuiulobmwtiuiywqabWiywgpobjsliwqbruibwnwi
yu rysn,bpoqbyrwoblmwowqbyrwdbwxwtbilbsuyysw,bpoqbyrwtw,bpibuybrpqbgwwo
gwkltwbrwbjsliwqbyrwd,byrwbxuiulobtwdpuowqabPoqbyrwobrwblmwowqbruibwnwi
euqw,bpoqbiyussbyrwbku .twblkbyrwbeldpobuoberuywbkslpywqbpglxwbruda

WiywgpobDutpoqpbewoybi.qqwosnbmpswab“Dlyrwtblkb lq!”brwbjtuwqab“Uybui
KsltpabIrwbuibqwpqbpoqbrpibjldwbgpjfbylbrp.oybdwa”

Euyrbiyptuo bwnwibrwbislesnbtliwbylbruibkwwybylbjloktloybyrwbpmmptuyulo,
erwobuobilkybpoqb woyswbylowibuybimlfwa

“Rwptyblkbdnbrwpty,”buybjtuwq,b“uybuibtwpssnbnl.!”

UoiypoysnbWiywgpobtwpsucwqbyrpybyruibepibolbquiwdglquwqbimutuy,boltbepi
uybKsltp—g.yberlbepibuy?bErlbepibyruibxuiuloblkbgwp.yn,bpslowbuobyrw
ipxp wbPktujpobeusqwtowii?

Xwtnbislesnbolebuybepibqwijwoquo byrwbwdgpofdwoybpoqbjlduo byleptqbruda
Wiywgpobtwy.towqbyrwbqupdloqibylbyrwbml.jrbpoqbtwmspjwqbuybuoiuqwbrui
sluobjslyra

Euyrbl.yiytwyjrwqbptdibyrwb utsbjpdwbyleptqbrudab“Dnbslxw,bdnbslxw,”birw
jtuwq,b“qlbolybywssbdwbyrpybnl.bqlbolybfolebdwa”bIrwbepibjsliwbwol. r
olebkltbyrwbImpouptqbylbiwwbrwtbtpmuqsnbtuiuo bpoqbkpssuo bgtwpiyibpoq
rwtbsumibytwdgsuo beuyrbslxwbpoqbmpiiuloabPbi.qqwobepxwblkbrlybqwiutw
iewmyblxwtbrud,bilbeuyrbl.yiytwyjrwqbptdibrwbimtpo bklteptqbylbdwwybrwt
poqbjt.irbrwtbylbruibgtwpiya

Yptcpo,bklssleuo byrwbimlltblkbyrwbdpobpoqbyrwbeldpo,bdlxwqbuobp
swui.twsnbdpoowtbpslo byrwbv.o swbytpus,bkltbrwbtwpsucwqbyrpybolbrpiyw
epibwiiwoyupsbylblxwtypfwbyrwiwbyelabOltbepibrwbpybpssbi.tmtuiwqberwobrw
jpdwbi.qqwosnb.mlobyrwbr.qqswqbku .twblkbpbeldpo,bsnuo buobyrwbjwoywtblk
yrwbmpyrepnabRwbfowsybgwiuqwbrwtbpoqbspuqbpbrpoqb.mlobrwtbirl.sqwt,
wsujuyuo bpbiyptyswqbijtwpda

“ lq!”birwbjtuwq,b“yruibuibyrwbwoq!”

“Nl.bptwbuobolbqpo wt,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Ubeussbolybrptdbnl.a”

Irwby.towqbrwtbwnwibpoqbsllfwqb.mbpybrudabPybkutiybirwbyrl. rybrwbepi
Wiywgpoab“Nl.brpxwbjldwbgpjfbylbipxwbdw,bWiywgpo?”birwbpifwqa

“Wiywgpo!”brwbwhjspudwqab“UbpdbolybWiywgpoabYrpybuibolybdnbopdwa”bPoq
yrwobirwbtwjl oucwqbruda

“Sltqb twniylfw!”birwbjtuwqab“Uybuibtwpssnbnl.?”

“Nwi,”brwbipuq,b“poqberlbptwbnl.?”

“UbpdbKsltpbRpefwiabUbepibSpqnb twniylfw’ibdpuqa”

“Ubtwdwdgwtbnl.,”brwbipuqab“Erpybptwbnl.bqluo brwtw?”

“Ubpdbpktpuqbylbywssbnl.,”birwbipuqab“Ubpdbpktpuqblkbnl.tbpo wta”

“Ywssbdw,”brwbjlddpoqwqab“Nl.birl.sqbfole,bKsltp,byrpybUbqlbolybrptd
eldwoa”

“Ewbjpdwbylb wyb lsqbktldbyrwbxp.syiblkbLmpt,”birwbipuqab“G.ybyrpybnl.
folea”

“Ubfolebolyruo blkbuy,”brwbtwmsuwqab“Qlbnl.bdwpobyrpybnl.bewtwbeuyr
yrliwbW.tlmwpoiberlbqt.  wqbdwbpoqbswkybdwbuobyrwutbjpdm?”

“Nwi,”birwbipuq,b“ewb lybyrwb lsq,bg.ybnl.bjpdwbeuyrbnl.tbEpcutubpoq
yllfbuybktldb.ia”

“UbjpdwbeuyrbolbEpcutubpoqbyllfbolyruo bktldbnl.,”bipuqbYptcpoab“Ubql
olyb.oqwtiypoqbnl.a”

Irwbtpuiwqbrwtbwnwgtleibuobi.tmtuiw,bkltbirwbfowebyrpybYptcpoblkbyrw
Pmwibquqbolybsuwa

“Ewbgwjpdwbiwmptpywq,”birwbipuq,b“pkywtbl.tbdwoby.towqbp puoiyb.ia
Wiywgpobiylswbdwbktldbyrwblyrwti,bpoqbyrwo,bpkywtbpberuswbFtpifubkl.oq
.iabRwbepibyrwbT.iiupoabRwbjpdwbeuyrbpbgp k.sblkbqupdloqibpoqbyrwo
Wiywgpobfusswqbrudbpoqbyllfbyrwbqupdloqia”

UybepibolebYptcpo’iby.tobylbwhmwtuwojwbi.tmtuiwa

“PoqbWiywgpobuibyrwbdpoberlbuibeuyrbnl.?”brwbpifwqa

“Nwi,”birwbipuq,b“g.ybrwbrpibqwiwtywqbdwabUbjl.sqbolybepsfbkptyrwtblobdn
iltwbkwwyabRwbrpib lowbpoqbswkybdwbrwtwbylbquwbpoqbrwbrpibypfwobyrw
qupdloqibeuyrbruda”

“Ewbirpssbkuoqbrud,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Jldwa”

“G.ybUbjpoolybepsf,”bipuqbyrwb utsa

“Yrpybuibpbidpssbdpyywt,”brwbipuq,bpoqbiyllmuo bsukywqbrwtbylbrui
irl.sqwta

Wpiusnbyrwbpmw-dpobgltwbyrwbwhrp.iywqb utsbpslo byrwbytpusab“Uybuiboly
kptbylbepywt,”brwbipuq,b“poqbepywtbuiberpybnl.bowwqabUybeussbrwsmbyl
twxuxwbnl.bpoqb uxwbnl.biytwo yr,bpoqbmwtrpmibUbirpssbgwbpgswbylbkuoq
kllqbkltbnl.billoa”

“Ernbptwbnl.bilb llqbylbdw?”bpifwqbyrwb utsa

“Nl.bptwbpbeldpoabUbjl.sqbolybswpxwbnl.bpslowbuobyrwbv.o swbylbquw,bol
dpyywtberpybnl.bdpnbrpxwbqlow,”btwmsuwqbyrwbpmw-dpoabPoqbKsltpbRpefwi
jl.sqblosnbilgbpbgtlfwobmswpbkltbklt uxwowiibkltbyrwbetlo birwbrpqbqlow
ruda

Uyb twebz.uywbqptf,bg.ybiyussbyrwnbdlxwqbpslo byrwbiuswoybytpusb.oyus
mtwiwoysnbYptcpobjp. rybuobyrwbquiypojwbyrwbtwkswjyuloblkbkutwsu rya

“Ubyruofbewbirpssbillobkuoqbnl.tbktuwoq,”brwberuimwtwqab“Dpfwbolboluiwa”

Pbdldwoybspywtbruibfwwobwptibjp. rybyrwbil.oqblkbxlujwiabRwbrpsywqbpoq
slewtwqbyrwb utsbylbrwtbkwwya

“Ukbnl.bjpoolybklssle,”brwbipuq,b“epuybrwtwabUbqlbolybeuirbrudbyl
wijpmwabUbeussbtwy.tobkltbnl.abUkbnl.bjpobklssleblobislesn,bqlbila”bPoq
yrwobrwbswkybrwtbpoqbdpqwbruibepnbjp.yul.isnbklteptqbyleptqbyrwbsu ry
poqbyrwbxlujwiabRwbrwptqbKsltpbRpefwibdlxuo bqutwjysnbgwruoqbrudabUybepi
wxuqwoybyrpybirwbjl.sqbolybgwptbyrwbyrl. ryblkbgwuo bswkybpslowbp puobuo
yrwbqptfbv.o swabPsdliybiud.sypowl.isnbYptcpobrwptqbpbsleberuowbpbkwe
mpjwibylbruibtu ryab“Vpq-gps-vp,”brwberuimwtwqbuobpbslebxlujw,b“rwws,”
poqbyrwb twpybgspjf-dpowqbsulobjtwmybjsliwbylbrud,bpoqbKsltpbRpefwi,
iyuksuo bpbijtwpd,bt.irwqbylbruibiuqwbpoqb tpimwqbruibptdia

“Iuswojw,”brwberuimwtwq;b“Vpq-gps-vpbeussbolybrptdbnl.a”

Pobuoiypoybspywtbyrwbyrtwwbjpdwbylbyrwbwq wblkbyrwbpojuwoybtuxwtbgpof,
poqbyrtl. rbyrwbypssb tpiiwib tleuo byrwtwbsllfwqbqleob.mlobyrwbsuyysw
jpdmbgwowpyra

Yptcpo,bylbruibjloiywtopyulo,bipebpbjl.oywtmptyblkbrudiwskbiypoquo 
gwkltwbpbsuyyswbkutw,beruswbislesnbpmmtlpjruo byrwbdpo,beuyr
l.yiytwyjrwqbptdi,bepibpbeldpo,bqtpmwqbuobksleuo beruywabRwbrwptqbrwt
eltqi;bilkybeltqiblkbslxwbpoqbwoqwptdwoy,bpoqbpybyrwbil.oqblkbyrwbxlujw
poqbyrwbijwoybimlltbyrpybpbxp tpoybeuoqbjpttuwqbi.qqwosnbylbrui
oliytusi,bpbiytpo wbjldmswhblkbwdlyuloblxwterwsdwqbrud—rpmmuowii,
qwimput,btp w,bslxw,bpoqbrpywa

Rwbipebyrwbdpobpybyrwbkutwbiywmbklteptqbeuyrblmwobptdibylbypfwbyrwbeldpo
ylbruibgtwpiy,bpoqbyrwobYptcpobiwmptpywqbyrwb tpiiwibpoqbiywmmwqbylbyrw
xwtnbwq wblkbyrwbwdgpofdwoy,bruibxlujwbirpyywtuo byrwbv.o swbeuyrbp
iuo swbeltqa

“Vpow!”brwbjtuwq,bpoqbuoiypoysnbyrwbdpobpoqbeldpoby.towqbpoqbsllfwqb.m
pybrud,berwtwbruibku .twbepibqudsnbtwxwpswqbuobyrwbsu ryblkbyrw
jpdmkutwabPybiu ryblkbrudbyrwbdpoberwwswqbpoqbtpjwqbkltbyrwbv.o swblo
yrwblmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrwbtuxwt,bpoqbyrwobYptcpobswpmwqbylbyrwbglyyldblk
yrwbepirbgwslebpoqbtpobyleptqbyrwbeldpoa

“Vpow,”brwbjtuwq,b“uybuibnl.,buybuibnl.!”

YrwbeldpobirlewqbrwtbgweusqwtdwoyabIrwbsllfwqbkutiybpybyrwbtwytwpyuo 
ku .twblkbyrwbdpobirwbrpqbgwwobpgl.ybylbwdgtpjwbpoqbyrwoby.towqbrwtbwnwi
yleptqbYptcpoabIrwbqtwebrwtbkuo wtibpjtliibrwtbgtlebpoqbsllfwqbgpjf
yleptqbWiywgpo,bg.ybWiywgpobepibolbslo wtbuobiu ryabYrwobirwbyllfbp
kpsywtuo biywmbyleptqbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“Dnb lq,”birwbjtuwq,b“erpybqlwibuybdwpo?bErlbptwbnl.,bpoqbukbnl.bptw
Yptcpoberlbepibrw?”

“UbpdbYptcpo,bVpow,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoa

IrwbsllfwqbgpjfbpoqbipebKsltpbRpefwibpmmtlpjruo ab“Nwi,”birwbipuq,b“nl.
ptwbYptcpoabUbipebnl.berwobnl.btpoblkkbuoylbyrwbv.o swbeuyrbKsltp
RpefwiabUbjpoolyb.oqwtiypoq,bVlroabUbjl.sqbolybgwsuwxwbyrpybnl.,bwxwo
rpqbnl.bi.kkwtwqbpobpjjuqwoybylbnl.tbrwpq,bjl.sqbrpxwbqlowbi.jrbp
yruo a”

“U,bt.oblkkbuoylbyrwbv.o swbeuyrbKsltpbRpefwi?”brwbpifwq,buob.okwu owq
i.tmtuiwa

“Ubipebnl.,”bipuqbVpowa

Yrwbpmw-dpoby.towqbyleptqbKsltpab“Ubqlbolyb.oqwtiypoqbuy,”brwbipuqa

“UybepibWiywgpoberlbtpoblkkbuoylbyrwbv.o swbeuyrbdw,bSpqnb twniylfw,”
ipuqbyrwb utsab“UybepibWiywgpoberlbepibpgl.ybylbqwjwuxwbnl.bp puoabYrui
uibuoqwwqbSltqb twniylfwabYrwblyrwtbepibpobudmliylt,berlblosnbv.iy
qwiwtywqbdwbpoqbswkybdwbylbquwbuobyrwbv.o swabRpqbolybSltqb twniylfw
jldwberwobrwbquqbUbirl.sqbgwbqwpqbgnbolea”

Spqnb twniylfwbyllfbpbkpsywtuo biywmbyleptqbrwtbr.igpoqab“Pr,bVlro,”birw
ipuq,b“Ubfowebuybjl.sqbolybrpxwbgwwobnl.abDnbrwptybylsqbdw,bg.ybdnbwnwi
qwjwuxwqbdwabZ.ujf,”birwbjtuwq,b“yrpybudmliyltbd.iybgwbjpmy.twqabR.ttn,
Vlro,bgwkltwbrwbwijpmwia”

“Swybrudb l,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Pibd.jrbpibUbepoybrud,bpibd.jrbpibU
epoybyrpyberujrbrwbrpibiylswobktldbdw,bUbeussbolybswpxwbnl.bpslowbp puo
uobyrwbv.o sw,bVpow,bwxwobylbjpyjrbruda”

“G.ybVpq-gps-vp,”birwbjtuwqab“Erpyblkbrud?”

“Pr,”bjtuwqbyrwbpmw-dpo,b“Ubrpqbklt lyywo,”bpoqby.touo bylbyrwbsulobrw
mluoywqbyleptqbyrwbqutwjyulobyrpybyrwbImpouptqbrpqbwijpmwqab“Kwyjrbrud,
Vpq-gps-vp,”brwbjtuwq;bpoq,beuyrbpbgl.oq,byrwbypeonbgwpiybepiblkkb.mlo
yrwbimlltblkbruibz.pttna

“Rwbeussbfussbrud?”bpifwqbKsltpbRpefwi,bir.qqwtuo abPoqbnwybpybrwptybirw
epib spqblkbyrwbv.iybkpywbyrpybepiblxwtypfuo byrwbImpouptqa

“Ol,brwbeussbolybfussbrud,”bipuqbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwiab“Rwbdpnbdp.sbrudbp
guy,bg.ybrwbeussbgtuo brudbgpjfbpsuxwbukbuybuibmliiugswa”bPoqbyrwo,bpi
yrl. rbyrwbkpywblkbyrwbk. uyuxwbepibpstwpqnbklt lyywo,brwby.towqbyleptq
ruibdpywa

“Vpow,”brwbipuq,b“.i.spbylsqbdwbyrpybnl.bewtwbqwpqabRwbipuqbyrpybyrwn
kl.oqbnl.tbg.towqbglqnbuobyrwbPtpgbxussp wbpoqbyrpybyrwnbg.tuwqbuy
yrwtwabRlebuibuy,byrwo,byrpybnl.bptwbrwtwbpsuxwbpoqb.orptdwq?bUbrpxw
gwwobiwptjruo byrwbv.o swibkltbS.xuoubylbpxwo wbnl.tbqwpyrabMwtrpmibuy
uibewssbyrpybUbquqbolybkuoqbruda”

“Nl.bel.sqbowxwtbrpxwbkl.oqbrud,”btwmsuwqbVpowbJspnylo,b“g.ybUbjpooly
.oqwtiypoqbernb.i.spbirl.sqbrpxwbylsqbnl.byrpybrwbrpqbkl.oqbdnbglqnbpoq
g.tuwqbuya”

“Ildwbmtuilowtibyrpybrwbyllf,”btwmsuwqbYptcpo,b“ylsqbrudbyrpybS.xuoubrpq
ypfwobnl.bgl.oqbrpoqbpoqbkllybuoylblowblkbyrwbPtpgbr.yibowptbyrwbxussp w
 pywepn,bpoqbyrpybyrwtwbrwbrpqbk.tyrwtbiwj.twqbnl.bylbpbiypfwbqtuxwo
uoylbyrwbkslltblkbyrwbr.yabPkywtbyrwbxussp wbrpqbgwwobqwiytlnwqbgnbkutw
.i.spbpoqbyrwblyrwtbEpcutubtwy.towqbylbiwptjrbkltbnl.beuyrbildwblkbyrw
mtuilowtibyrwnbrpqbypfwoberlbmluoywqbl.ybyrwbsljpyuloblkbyrwbr.y,berwtw
yrwbjrpttwqbtwdpuoiblkbpbr.dpobglqnbewtwbkl.oqbgwiuqwbpbg.towqbiypfwbyl
erujrbuybrpqbpmmptwoysnbgwwobyuwqa”

“Pr!”bwhjspudwqbyrwb uts,b“UbiwwabS.xuoubquqbguoqbdwbrpoqbpoqbkllybpoq
yuwbdwbylbyrwbiypfw,bg.ybspywtbrwbjpdwbgpjfbuoylbyrwbr.ybpoqbtwdlxwqbyrw
gloqiabRwbpyywdmywqbylbpyypjfbdw—rlebslo bewbkl. rybUbqlbolybfole,bg.y
ilbwo tliiwqbewtwbewbuobl.tbiyt.  swbyrpybowuyrwtblowblkb.ibepibpeptwblk
yrwbg.touo blkbyrwbxussp wbpgl.yb.iabPibUbmwtiuiywoysnbkl. rybrudblkkbU
jp. rybpb sudmiwblkbpbfoukwbuobruibgwsy,bpoqbyrwobUbswybrudbiwucwbdwbpoq
pibruibptdibwojutjswqbdwbUb tpimwqbyrwbfoukwbpoq,bqtpeuo buybktldbuyi
irwpyr,bms.o wqbuybuoylbruibgpjf,bgwslebruibswkybirl.sqwt—yrpybepibyrw
woqabS.xuoubipofbsukwswiibylbyrwbkslltblkbyrwbr.yabPsdliybiud.sypowl.isn
yrwbtwptbpoqbtllkblkbyrwbiyt.jy.twbg.tiybuoylbkspdwia

“Ubepibpsdliybopfwq,bkltbrwbrpqbyltobowptsnbpssbdnbjslyruo bktldbdwbuo
l.tbiyt.  swiabRpo uo b.mlobyrwbepssblkbyrwbr.ybepibyruiberuywbg.tolliw,
yrwbmtlmwtyn,bql.gyswii,blkblowblkbyrwbd.tqwtwqbPtpgiabUbiwucwqbuy,bpoq
yrtleuo buybpgl.ybdwbtpobuoylbyrwbxussp wbiytwwyabYrwbr.yibewtwbolebpss
pkspdw,bpoqbyrwbspiyblkbyrwbopyuxwibepibquipmmwptuo byrtl. rbyrw
 pywepnabYlbdnbtu rybepibpbiwjyuloblkbmpsuipqwbyrpybrpqbolybnwybgwwo
pyypjfwqbgnbyrwbkspdwiabYlbwijpmwbuoylbyrwbv.o swbgnbyrwb pywepnbel.sq
rpxwbdwpoybt.oouo buoylbyrwbptdiblkbdnbwowduwi,bpoqbil,bildwrle,bU
dpop wqbylbijpswbyrwbmpsuipqwbpoqbqtlmbuoylbyrwbv.o swb.oiwwobgnbpona

“Ubrpxwbrpqbjloiuqwtpgswbqukkuj.synbws.quo byrwbxptul.ibgpoqiblkbgspjfi
erlbwijpmwqbyrwbxussp wabPbmptyblkbyrwbyudwbUbrpxwbgwwobr.oyuo bkltbyrw
EpcutubpoqbyrwbgpspojwbUbrpxwbrpqbylbtwdpuobuobruquo abUbepibtwiyuo buo
yrwbjtlyjrblkbpbytww,bpgl.ybrpskbpbduswbktldbrwtw,berwobUbipebyrwbsu ry
lkbyruibdpo’ibkutw,bpoqberwobUbjpdwbylbuoxwiyu pywbUbepibpsdliybiy.oowq
gnbvlnbylbquijlxwtbyrpybUbrpq,bpibUbudp uowq,biy.dgswqb.mlobdnbYptcpoa”

“UybepibS.xuou’ibglqn,byrwo,bpoqbolybnl.tibyrpybyrwnbg.tuwq,”bipuq
Yptcpoa

“Nwi,”bipuqbVpow,b“poqbuybepibyruibdpoberlbv.iybwijpmwqberldbUbipebt.o
lkkbuoylbyrwbv.o swbeuyrbKsltp,bpoqbolybnl.,bpibUbgwsuwxwqa”

KsltpbRpefwibsllfwqb.mbi.qqwosnab“Poqbuybd.iybrpxwbgwwobWiywgpoberlbjpdw
euyrbyrwbEpcutubpoqbiylswbyrwb lsqbktldb.iabRwbkllswqbl.tbdwobpoqbrw
d.iybrpxwbkllswqbyrwbEpcutu,bylla”

“Rwbdu rybrpxwbkllswqbponlowbukbrwbjl.sqbqwjwuxwbdw,”bipuqbVpowbJspnyloa
“Ubirl.sqbrpxwbquijlxwtwqbyrwbqwjwmyulobuobpbkwebduo.ywibUbrpxwbol
ql.gy,bg.ybuobyrwbksujfwtuo bsu ryblkbyrwbjpdmkutw,bpoqbuoks.wojwqbpibU
epibgnbyrwb twpybvlnblkbiwwuo bSltqb twniylfwbp puo,bUbgwsuwxwqbz.ujfsn
yrpyberujrbUbepoywqbylbgwsuwxwa”

Yrwbpmw-dpobtpobruibkuo wtibyrtl. rbruibyrujfbirljfblkbrputbuobp
jrptpjywtuiyujb wiy.twblkbdwquypyuloab“Ubjpoolyb.oqwtiypoqbrlebrwbkllswq
.i.spbuobgtlpqbqpnsu ry,”brwbipuqbeuyrbpbirpfwblkbruibrwpqa

“Ubjpo,”bipuqbVpowab“Rwbylsqbrudbyrpybrwbrpqbi.kkwtwqbpobuov.tnbylbrui
rwpqberujrbrpqbjp.iwqbrudbylbsliwbruibdwdltnbmptyupssn—pobwhmspopyulo
erujrbpjjl.oywqbkltbdponbspmiwibuobyrwbdpo’ibuoywtmtwypyuloblkbnl.t
mwtilopsuyna”

“Rwbepibpbjswxwtbqwxus,”bjlddwoywqbyrwbpmw-dpoa

“Rwbepibpbqwxus,bpssbtu ry,”bipuqbKsltpa

Uybepibdltwbyrpobpobrl.tbspywtbyrpybyrwb tpiiwibpybyrwbtuxwtbgpof
i.qqwosnbmptywqbpoqbVpq-gps-vpbwdwt wqbiuswoysnbuoylbyrwutbmtwiwojwa
 tpimwqbuobruibvpeibepibpbyltobpoqbgsllqnbswlmptqbifuoberujrbrwbgtl. ry
poqbspuqbpybyrwbkwwyblkbruibdpiywta

Yrwbpmw-dpobmujfwqbyrwbyruo b.mbpoqbwhpduowqbuy,bpoqbyrwobrwbijleswqab“U
gwsuwxwbVpq-gps-vpbfusswqbrudbpkywtbpss,”brwbipuqa

“Rwbmtlgpgsnbtwiuiywq,”bipuqbVpowbJspnylo,b“uoberujrbwxwoybVpq-gps-vp
jl.sqbqlbolyruo bwsiwbuobiwsk-qwkwoiwbg.ybispnbruda”

“Qlbnl.bi.mmliwbrwbpywbrud?”bjtuwqbKsltpbRpefwi,bqtpeuo bkwptk.ssnbpepn
ktldbyrwbgwpiya

“Ol,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“rwbrpibolybrpqbyudwabUobyrwbdltouo bewbeussbklssle
yrwbimlltbpoqbkuoqbruibglqnabUbirl.sqbsufwbylbrpxwbyrwbqupdloqibp puoa”
PoqbyrwobrwbylsqbVpowbyrwbiytpo wbiyltnbjloowjywqbeuyrbruibpjz.uiuyulo
lkbyrwb twpybewpsyrbtwmtwiwoywqbgnbyrwbsuyyswbgp blkbiylowia

Yrwbklssleuo bdltouo byrwnbiwybl.ybuobiwptjrblkbWiywgpo’ibjltmiwabYrw
ytpusbswqbyrtl. rbqwoiwbgt.irbpoqbyrltoibylbyrwbwq wblkbyrwbtuxwt
kptyrwtbqleobiytwpd,bpoqbyrwtwbuybquipmmwptwq,bpoqbyrl. rbyrwbpmw-dpo
iwptjrwqbglyrbiuqwiblkbyrwbtuxwtbkltbpbjl.mswblkbduswibpglxwbpoqbgwsle
yrwbmluoybpyberujrbrwbrpqbsliybyrwbimllt,brwbkl.oqbolbk.tyrwtbiu oblk
yrwbImpouptqabYrwtwbepibgsllqbpslo byrwbytpjfibyrpybWiywgpobrpqbdpqwbpoq
gsllqb.mlobyrwb tpiiwibpybyrwbtuxwt’ibgtuda

Pybspiybyrwbpmw-dpobtwy.towqbylbyrwbyelbeldwoab“Yrpybuibyrwbwoqblkbyrw
dpoberlbel.sqbgwbYptcpo,”brwbipuqa

“Qlbnl.byruofbrwbuibqwpq?”bpifwqbVpowa

“Nwi,bUbpdbi.twblkbuy,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“KtldbyrwbgsllqbUbudp uowbyrpy
Vpq-gps-vpbdp.swqbrud,bg.ybyrpybrwbdpop wqbylbgtwpfbpepnbpoqb wybuoyl
yrwbtuxwtabYrwbkpjybyrpybUbjpobkuoqbolbuoqujpyuloblkbruibrpxuo btwpjrwq
yrwbgpofbeuyruobpbtwpilopgswbquiypojwblkbyruibimlybswpqibdwbylbgwsuwxw
yrpybrwbrpibgwwobqwxl.twqbgnbjtljlquswia”

P puobKsltpbRpefwibir.qqwtwqab“Rwbepibpbeujfwqbdpo,”birwbipuq,b“g.ybU
el.sqbolybeuirbwxwobyrwbeujfwqwiybi.jrbpbkpywbpibyrpya”

Yrwbpmw-dpobirt.  wqab“Rwbgtl. rybuyb.mlobrudiwsk,bpoq,bql.gyswii,byrw
eltsqbuibgwyywtblkkbeuyrl.ybruda”

“Uybepibdnbkp.sy,”bipuqbKsltpab“Uybepibdnbeujfwqowiibyrpybgtl. rybrud
poqbyrwblyrwtibrwtwabUbylsqbyrwdblkberpybUbrpqbrwptqblkbyrwb lsqbuobyrw
ytwpi.twbxp.syiblkbLmpt—uybepibdnbuqwpbylbjldwbrwtwbpoqbiywpsbuybpoqbyl
kuoqbpbdpoberlbjl.sqbudmwtilopywbSltqb twniylfwabGwjp.iwblkbdn
eujfwqowiibdponbdwobrpxwbquwq,bpoqbnl.,bSltqb twniylfw,bpoqbnl.tbspqn,
rpxwbpsdliybdwybnl.tbqwpyr—Ubqlbolybqptwbylbpifbkltbklt uxwowiia”

VpowbJspnylobm.ybrwtbptdbpgl.ybyrwb uts’ibirl.sqwtab“Pxptujwbrpibgwwo
yrwbjp.iwblkbdponbjtudwibiuojwbyrwbeltsqbgw po,”birwbipuq,b“poqberwo
jtudwbuibuoxlfwqbuobuyibpuqbuybpii.dwibuyibdliybtwm.siuxwbpimwjybpoq
gtuo ibdliyblkywobuyibleobm.ouirdwoy,bpibnl.,bKsltp,bdpnbewssbywiyukna
KltbdnbmptybUbklt uxwbnl.abUbudp uowbyrpybnl.brpxwbswptowqbnl.tbswiiloa”

“Nl.brpxwbmpuqbpbrwpxnbmtujwbkltbnl.tbklssn,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Nl.
rpxwbgwwobm.ouirwqbwol. rabEwbeussbypfwbnl.bylbnl.tbktuwoqiberlbptwblo
yrwutbepnbylbyrwbjlpiyb.oqwtbwijltyblkbpbktuwoqsnbytugwabYrwnbjpoolybgw
kptbquiypoy,bklt,bktldbyrwbjloquyuloblkbyrwbdwoberwobUbipebyrwd,bslo 
dptjrwibptwbgwnloqbyrwutbmrniujpsbmlewtia”

Yrwb utsbqtlmmwqbylbrwtbfowwibpybruibkwwyab“RlebjpobUbyrpofbnl.bkltbnl.t
fuoqowii?”birwbipuqab“G.ybUbel.sqbtpyrwtbtwdpuobrwtwbuobPktujpbeuyrbnl.
poqbSpqnb twniylfw,bpoqbeltfbkltbnl.bpoqbirlebgnbdnbslnpsynbyrpybUbjpo
twqwwdbyrwbetlo bUbquqbnl.a”

Yptcpob spojwqbpybruibeukwbz.wiyulouo sn,bpoqbVpowbJspnylobiu oukuwqbrwt
piiwoybylbyrwb uts’ibtwz.wiya

“Xwtnbewss,byrwo,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpo,b“nl.bdpnbtwdpuobeuyrb.i,bKsltpa”

“Nl.beussbowxwtbtw twybuy,”bipuqbyrwb utsab“Ubeussbeltfbdnbkuo wtiblkk
kltbnl.a”

Yrwbyrtww,bpoqbVpq-gps-vp,brpqbgwwobyrtwwbqpnib.mlobyrwbdptjrbyleptq
rldwberwobYptcpo,berlbepibuobyrwbswpq,bmp.iwq,bpoq,btpuiuo bruibrwpq,
ioukkwqbyrwbv.o swbputabYrwobrwby.towqbylbyrwdbeuyrbpbiduswab“DnbEpcutu
ptwbquilgwquwoy,”brwbipuqab“Ubiwoybyrwdbrldwbpoqbnwybrwtwbyrwnbptw,
jlduo byleptqb.i,bqutwjysnbpepnbktldbrldwa”

Pbkwebduo.ywibspywtbyrwnbdwybyrwbxpoblkbyrwbEpcutu,bpoqb twpybepibyrw
twvlujuo blkbyrwbgspjfiberwobyrwnbkl.oqbglyrbyrwutbdpiywtbpoqbduiytwii
psuxwbpoqb.oijpyrwqa

“Poqbolebyrpybewbrpxwbkl.oqbnl.,”bipuqbYptcpo,bpkywtbyrwb twwyuo ibewtw
lxwt,bpoqbuoo.dwtpgswbz.wiyuloibrpqbgwwobpifwqbpoqbpoiewtwq,b“ywssbdw
erpybnl.bquqbeuyrbyrwb lsqbyrpybnl.byllfbktldbyrwbjpdmblkbyrw
W.tlmwpoia”

“Ewbruqbuy,bLbGepop,berwtwbnl.bylsqb.ibylbruqwbuy,”btwmsuwqb.i.spa

“Ubepibolybeuyrbnl.,b.i.sp,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpoab“Uybepibpolyrwt,berl
qwjwuxwqbSpqnb twniylfwbwxwobpibrwbqwjwuxwqbnl.—pbgpqbdpo—erl
udmwtilopywqbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibilbjswxwtsnbyrpybuybuibolbeloqwtbyrpy
nl.bewtwbudmliwqb.mloa”

“Yrwobuybepibolybnl.berlbylsqb.ibyrpybnl.tbrwpqbrpqbgwwobuov.twqbpoq
yrpybnl.bjl.sqbolybtwdwdgwtbyrwbspo .p wblkbyrwbEpcutu?”bqwdpoqwqb.i.spa

“UybepibolybU,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“kltbdnbrwpqbrpibolybgwwobuov.twq,bpoqbU
twdwdgwtbewssbyrwbspo .p wblkbdnbjrusqtwoa”

“Pr,”bjtuwqb.i.sp,b“yrwobuybepibolybl.tbGu bGepopberlbtpobktldbG.yl,byrw
truoljwtli?”

Yptcpobsp. rwqab“Quqbyrwblyrwtbt.obktldbG.yl?”

“Yrpybrwbquq,”bjtuwqb.i.sp;b“rwbtpobuob twpybywttlta”

“UbqlbolybfolebyrpybUbgspdwbrud,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“kltbG.ylbuibolbmswpipoy
mspnkwsslea”

“G.ybl.tbGu bGepopbel.sqbolybt.obktldbrud,”bipuqb.i.sp,bmtl.qsna

“WxwobukbpolyrwtbyrpobUbruqbyrwb lsqbuybepibnl.berlbq. byrwbrlswabSwpq
dwbylbyrwbimlybyrwo,b.i.spa”

YrwbEpcutubjloiyt.jywqbt.qwbnwybjldkltypgswbsuyywtibkltbyrwbyelberuyw
eldwo,byrl. rbVpowbJspnylobsp. rwqbpybyrwbuqwpbyrpybuybepibowjwiiptn
yrpybirwbgwbjpttuwqbpoqbuoiuiywqb.mlobepsfuo bgwiuqwbrwtbgwptwtibdltw
lkywobyrpobirwbtlqwabKsltpbRpefwi,brlewxwt,bewpfbpoqbwhrp.iywqbpibirw
epi,bjl.sqbolybrpxwbmtljwwqwqbkptbeuyrl.ybgwuo bjpttuwq,bpoqbepib spqblk
yrwbmtwiwojwblkbyrwbgtpeonbEpcutuberlbgltwbrwtbpslo byrwbv.o swbytpusbil
wpiusna

Uybepibpbrpmmnbjldmponbyrpybdptjrwqbuobg.lnpoybimutuyibyleptqbyrwbimly
erwtwbyrwbEpcutubrpqbjpjrwqbyrwb lsqbkltbWiywgpoabYrwbgspjfibewtw
lxwtksleuo beuyrb llqbopy.twbgwjp.iwbyrwnbrpqbkl.oqbyrwutbdpiywtbpoq
yrwutbduiytwii,beruswbyrwbtwsuwkbpoqbvlnblkbYptcpobpoqbVpowbewtwbyll
qwwmbkltbwhmtwiiuloa

Erwobpybspiybyrwnbjpdwbylbyrwbmspjwbgwiuqwbyrwbtuxwtberwtwbyrwnbrpq
g.tuwqbyrwb lsqbyrwbEpcutu,biuo uo bpoqbsp. ruo ,bjlddwojwqbylbqu bklt
yrwbytwpi.tw,bg.ybmtwiwoysnbyrwutbiuo uo bjwpiwqbpoqbyrwutbsp. rywtbepi
twmspjwqbgnbwhmtwiiuloiblkbm.ccswqbjlojwtoa

KltbpberuswbYptcpobepyjrwqbyrwdbuobiuswojwbpoqbyrwobpbislebidusw
lxwtimtwpqbruibjl.oywopojwab“Nl.bd.iybrpxwbg.tuwqbuybqwwm,b.i.sp,”brw
ipuqa

Yrwbgspjfbijtpyjrwqbruibrwpqab“Ol,bolybilbqwwmbpibyrui,bGepop,”brw
jtuwqab“Ubjpoolyb.oqwtiypoqbuyabEwbirl.sqbrpxwbkl.oqbyrwb lsqbgwkltw
yruia”

“Ptwbnl.bi.twbnl.bptwbsllfuo buobyrwbtu rybmspjw?”bpifwqbYptcpoa

“Yruibuibyrwbwhpjybimly,bGepop,”byrwbgspjfbpii.twqbrud,b“g.ybyrwb lsqbui
olybrwtwabIldwlowbrpibtwdlxwqbuybiuojwbewbg.tuwqbuya”

“YrwbImpouptqbp puo,”bjlddwoywqbYptcpoab“Rwbepibpbisujfbj.iyldwta”

“G.ybrwbjl.sqbolybrpxwbypfwobuybpslow,”bipuqb.i.spab“Yrwtwbewtwbdpon
uo lyiblkbuya”

“Ol,”bipuqbYptcpo,b“rwbjl.sqboly,bpoqbnwybuybuibolybrwtwa”

YrwbEpcutubpoqbYptcpobiwptjrwqbjptwk.ssnbpgl.ybyrwbimlyberwtwbyrwb lsq
rpqbgwwobg.tuwq,bg.ybilbjswxwtbrpqbgwwobyrwbellqjtpkyblkbLepcpbyrpybrw
rpqblgsuywtpywqbwxwobktldbyrwbfwwobiwoiwiblkbyrwbpmw-dpobwxwtnbxwiyu w
lkbyrwbimlltbyrpybrwbpoqbyrwbImpouptqbrpqbdpqwbuobjpttnuo byrwb lsqbktld
yrwblsqbruquo bmspjwbylbyrwbowea

“Uybuib low,”bipuqbyrwbpmw-dpo,b“g.ybUbirpssbiwwbyrpybuybqlwibolyb wy
l.yblkbPktujp,”bpoqbrwbqwimpyjrwqbt.oowtibuobxptul.ibqutwjyuloibyl
olyuknbyrwbjruwkiblkbyrwbktuwoqsnbytugwibi.ttl.oquo bruibqldpuobylbepyjr
jptwk.ssnbwxwtnbipkptubjtliiuo byrwutbywttuyltn,bpoqbylbswybolowbmpii
erlbjpttuwqb lsqa

“Yrpybeussbiylmbyrwd,”brwbipuqbpkywtbyrwbt.oowtibrpqbqwmptywqa

Yrpybou rybpibyrwnbdpqwbyrwutbjpdmb.mlobyrwbytpusbyleptqbrldw,byrwbyrtww
eruywibewtwbiwpywqbpgl.ybpbidpssbkutwbeuyrbVpq-gps-vpbsnuo bv.iybgwruoq
yrwbpmw-dpo,berlbepibwhpduouo byrwbswlmptqbifuobyrpybyrwb lsqwobsulobrpq
twytuwxwqbuobruibm.ti.uyblkbyrwbImpouptq,berwobYptcpoby.towqbyleptqbrui
eukwa

“Nl.bewtwbtu ry,bVpow,”brwbipuqab“Yrwbytwpi.twbxp.syiblkbLmptbptwboly
kltbdwabYruibyudwbUbrpxwbsliybolyblosnbyrwb lsqbg.ybpbkpg.sl.ibklty.ow
uobqupdloqibpibewss,bgwiuqwbtuifuo byrpyb twpywiyblkbpss
ytwpi.twi—nl.tiwska”

“Swybyrwb lsqbpoqbyrwbqupdloqib l,bVlro,”birwbipuq;b“ewbrpxwblow
polyrwt,bpoqbFltpfa”

“Poqbpbgsllqnbswlmptqbifuo,”brwbi.mmswdwoywq,b“euyrbpbdniywtnbdpm
mpuoywqb.mlobuybuobgsllqa”

Vpq-gps-vpbioukkwqbyrwbruqwbpoqbsujfwqbruibjrlmibuo—poyujumpyuloblt
twytlimwjyulo—erujr?




[Uss.iytpyulo:bEuyrbpbjtnblkbywttltbyrwbImpouptqbquxwqbuoylbyrwbtuxwt]




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJRPMYWTbHHU
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbPObWIJPMWbPOQbPbJPMY.TW


PYbiu ryblkbyrwbyt.wbYptcpo,bWiywgpobDutpoqpby.towqbpoqbkswqbgsuoqsn
uoylbyrwbv.o swabRuibrwptybepibjlsqbeuyrbywttltbpibrwbt.irwqblobuobgsuoq
kwptabRwbrpqbolblgvwjyuxwbuobduoqabRwbquqbolybfolebuoberpybqutwjyulobrw
epib luo abRuiblosnbyrl. ry—yrwbyrl. ryberujrbqlduopywqbrud—epibgpiwq
ilswsnb.mlobpbqwiutwbylbm.ybpibd.jrbquiypojwbpibmliiugswbgwyewwobrudiwsk
poqbyrwbpmw-dpo,bpoqbilbrwbgs.oqwtwqblo,bkltjuo bruibepnbyrtl. rbqwoiw
yrujfwyiblkbyrltoibyrpybyltwbpoqbspjwtpywqbruibkswirb.oyus,bpybwxwtn
iywmbrwbswkybpbytpusblkbgsllqbgwruoqbruda

Pybyrwbtuxwt’ibwq wbyrwbyrltoibtwpjrwqbl.ybpoqbiwucwqbp puo,bpibyrwnbrpq
iwxwtpsbyudwibgwkltw,byrwbmtwjul.ibswlmptqbifuobylberujrbrwbjs.o beuyr
psdliybyrwbipdwbywopjuynbpibrwbjs.o bylbsukwbuyiwskabG.ybyruibyudwbyrw
yrltoibel.sqbolybswpxwb lbyrwutbrlsq,bpoqbpibrwbiyt.  swqbylbywptbuy
pepnbktldbyrwdbruibwnwiby.towqbgpjfbuobyrwbqutwjyulobktldberujrbrwbrpq
jldwabRwbrwptqbyrwbil.oqblkbpb twpybglqnbdlxuo btpmuqsnbyrtl. rbyrw
yrujfwybyleptqbrud,bpoqbpobuoiypoybspywtbipebyrwbgpswk.sb sptwblkbyel
 swpduo ,bnwssle- twwobimlyiblkbkspdwabEuyrbpbiyukswqbjtnblkbywttltbyrw
Impouptqbtwsuoz.uirwqbruibrlsqb.mlobyrwbswlmptqbifuobpoq,berwwsuo ,
quxwqbuoylbyrwbtuxwta

PibyrwbgspjfbepywtibjsliwqbpglxwbruibrwpqbVpq-gps-vpbjpdwbylbyrwbwq wblk
yrwbgpofbpoqbsllfwqbqleob.mlobyrwbeuqwouo bjutjswiberujrbdptfwqbyrwbimly
lkbruibz.pttn’ibquipmmwptpojw,bkltbWiywgpo,berlbepibpbiytlo bieuddwt,
iyt.jfbglsqsnbkltbyrwblmmliuywbiuqwblkbyrwbiytwpd,bfwwmuo brudiwskbewss
i.gdwt wqa

Kltbpbdldwoybyrwb lsqwobsulobijpoowqbyrwbi.tkpjwblkbyrwbtuxwt,bpoqbyrwo
rwby.towqbpoqbioukkwqbpybyrwbruqwbyrwbImpouptqbrpqbgwwobkltjwqbylbswpxw
gwruoq,bpoqb tpimuo buybuobruibvpeibyltwbuybktldbyrwbyrltoibyrpybrwsqbuy
poqbjpttuwqbuybgpjfbylbspnbuybpybyrwbkwwyblkbruibdpiywta

Kltjwqbpybspiybylbjldwbylbyrwbi.tkpjwbkltbputbyrwbImpouptqbptliwbpduqbp
dpiiblkbypo swqbklsup wbpoqbgtpojrwiabKltbpbdldwoybrwbyrl. rybyrpybrw
epibsliy,bilbyu rysnbrwsqbepibrwbgnbyrwbwoypo suo bgl. ri,bg.ybmtwiwoysn
rwbkltjwqbruibepnb.meptq,bpoqbpibruibrwpqbpmmwptwqbpglxwbyrwbi.tkpjwblk
yrwbepywtbpduqiybyrwbklsup wbrwbquijlxwtwqbyrpybrwbrpqbptuiwobqutwjysn
gwowpyrbpbkpsswobytwwbyrpybepibkslpyuo bqleobyrwbjwoywtblkbyrwbiytwpda
Pkywtbjloiuqwtpgswbwkkltybrwbdpop wqbylbqtpebrudiwskb.mbylbyrwbgl. ri
poqbkuoqbpbmspjwbpiytuqwbyrwb twpybglsw,bpoqbyr.ibrwbkslpywqbqleobiytwpd
uobjldmptpyuxwbipkwyna

Rwbgtwpyrwqbpbqwwmbiu rblkbtwsuwkbpibrwbtwpsucwqbeuyrberpybjldmptpyuxw
wpiwbrwbrpqbwijpmwqbyrwbv.iybxwo wpojwblkbyrwbpmw-dpoabUybuibyt.wbyrpy
rwbgwdlpowqbyrwbsliiblkbyrwbruqwberujrbjpttuwqbyrwbdpmbylbyrwbsljpyulo
lkbyrwbruqqwob lsq,bg.ybrwbiyussbtwypuowqbuobruibmliiwiiulobpbkpt
 twpywtbytwpi.tw,bpoqbpibrwbyrl. ryblkbuybruibrpoqib slpyuo snbkloqswq
yrwbgp blkbqupdloqibkpiywowqbylbruibsluobjslyrabNwy,bwxwobyrl. rbrw
mliiwiiwqbyruib twpybklty.owbuobqupdloqi,bruibpxptujul.ibduoqbjloiypoysn
twy.towqbylbyrwb lsqwobuo lyibgnbyrwbepywtkpssa

“Lepcpbeussb wybuy,”brwbd.yywtwqbylbrudiwskab“Ubowxwtbyt.iywqbyrwbgspjf
ql ,bpoqberwobrwbqwiwtywqbdwbUbfowebewssbwol. rberpybruibmspoibewtwa”

Pssbou rybslo bWiywgpobDutpoqpbkslpywqbqleobiytwpdb.mlobyrwbkpsswobytww,
iwwuo bolbiu oblkbsukw,b.oyusbirltysnbpkywtbqpngtwpf,brwbmpiiwqbpbopyuxw
xussp wb.mlobyrwbirltwa

Uybepibyrwbxussp wblkbLgwgw,byrwbjpoougps,bpoqbpybiu ryblkbyrwbiytpo w
ku .twblkbyrwberuywb upoybkslpyuo bqleobyrwbiytwpdb.mlobyrwbglswblkbp
ytww,byrwbnl.o beldpoberlbwimuwqbrudbtpuiwqbpb twpybr.wbpoqbjtnb.oyus
yrwbmlm.spyuloblkbyrwbxussp wbsuowqbyrwbirltwbepyjruo brudbmpiia

“Uybuibpbiytpo wb lq,”bjtuwqblowa

“Uybuibyrwbtuxwtbqwxus,”bipuqbyrwbeuyjrbqljyltab“Rwbuibpbktuwoqblkbduowa
Ole,buoqwwq,birpssbewbjpyjrbdponbkuirbukbkltbwpjrbywobyrpybnl.bjpyjrbnl.
 uxwblowbylbdwa”

“Uybuibolybyrwbtuxwtbqwxus,”bt.dgswqbyrwbqwwmbxlujwblkbLgwgw,byrw
jpoougpsab“Nl.bptwb wyyuo blsq,”brwbipuqbylbyrwbeuyjrbqljylt,b“poqblk
spywbnl.tbdwqujuowbrpibgwwobmlltbdwqujuow,bpoqbolebnl.bywssbdwbyrpy
Lgwgw’ib twpywiybwowdnbuibyrwbtuxwtbqwxusabYrpybuibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwia
Lgwgwbfoleibrudbewssa”bPoqbuobyt.yrbwxwtnbjpoougpsbjruwkbuobyrwbxujuouyn
fowebYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibewssbpoqbkwptwqbpoqbrpywqbrud,bkltbtwswoyswii
rpqbgwwobyrwbpmw-dpo’ibeptbp puoiybyrwda

“UybuibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”btwmwpywqbLgwgw,b“poqbrwbuibuobytl.gswa
Mwtrpmibuybuibl.tbjrpojwbylbjpmy.twbruda”

Rwbjpsswqbruibepttultibpgl.ybrud,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbrpskbpbr.oqtwqbgtpeon
nl.o bg.jfibiyptywqbpybpbvl bytlybqleobyrwbytpusbyrpybmptpsswswqbyrw
tuxwtabKltbduswibyrwnbklsslewqbyrwbislesnbdlxuo bytwwberujrbjpttuwq
WiywgpobDutpoqpb.oyusbpybspiybpybpbgwoqbuobyrwbtuxwtbyrwbytwwbepibjp. ry
uobyrwbl.ywtbjutjswblkbpbisle-dlxuo bwqqn,berujrbjpttuwqbuybgwowpyrbyrw
lxwtrpo uo bsudgiblkbytwwib tleuo bjsliwbylbyrwbtuxwt’ibwq wa

Jtpdmwqbpoqbjrusswqbpoqbr.o tnbpibrwbepi,bWiywgpobepib spqblkbyrw
lmmlty.ouynbylbqwiwtybruibjtpkybpoqb puobyrwbirltwabPoqbil,bspgltul.isn,
rwbqtwebrudiwskb.mbpdlo byrwbgtpojrwiblkbyrwbytwwbyrpybdldwoyptusn
lkkwtwqbrudbpbrpxwoblkbtwytwpybktldbyrwbtuxwt,bpoqbjtpesuo bylbuyibiywd
slewtwqbrudiwskbylbyrwb tl.oqbgwowpyr,b.ojloijul.iblkbyrwbkpjybyrpybuo
yrwb tpiiwibptl.oqbrudbiz.pyywqbrpskbpbr.oqtwqbjpoougpsbepttultia

Swpouo bp puoiybyrwbglswblkbyrwbytwwbyrwbImpouptqbtwiywqbkltbpbdldwoya
Rwbkwsybkltbyrwbqupdloqibpoqbkl.oqbyrpybyrwnbewtwbipkwa

“Ubpdbpbs.jfnbqwxus,bpkywtbpss,”brwbipuqbpsl.q,bpoqbpsdliy
iud.sypowl.isnbyrwbkukynbgspjfibptliwbpgl.ybrudbpoqbswpmwqb.mlobrudabIl
i.qqwobepibyrwbpyypjf,bilblxwterwsduo byrwbkltjw,byrpybyrwbImpouptqbrpq
olblmmlty.ouynbylbqwkwoqbrudiwskbp puoiybyrwd,beuyrbyrwbtwi.sybyrpybrw
epibqleobpoqbiwj.twsnbgl.oqbpsdliybgwkltwbrwbjl.sqbtwpsucwberpybepi
rpmmwouo bylbruda

“Pr,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bUbrpxwbnl.bpybspiy,”b slpywqbLgwgw,byrw
jpoougps,bg.ybWiywgpobquqbolyb.oqwtiypoqbpbeltqbyrwbdpobipuq,bpoqbilbrw
jl.sqbdpfwbolbtwmsnabRwbypsfwqbylbLgwgwbuobWo suir,bg.ybyrpybspo .p w
yrwbspyywtbquqbolyb.oqwtiypoqa

Lkblosnblowbyruo bepibWiywgpobjwtypuo;byrpybrwbepibpbmtuilowtbpoqbyrpy
rwbepibgwuo bypfwobgpjfbyleptqbyrwbuoywtultabErwobyrwnbtwpjrwqbLgwgw’i
xussp wbyrwtwbepib twpybtwvlujuo blobyrwbmptyblkbyrwbeldwobpoqbyrw
jrusqtwobpoqbyrwbepttultiberlbrpqbtwdpuowqbgwruoqabG.ybyrwbeuyjrbqljylt
irllfbruibrwpqbpoqbdpqwbetnbkpjwibpoqbqutwbmtlmrwjuwia

“Nl.brpxwbiwucwqbyrwbtuxwtbqwxus,”brwbipuqab“Ewbirpssbjpyjrbolbdltw
kuir,bpoqbmtwiwoysnbpb twpybiujfowiibeussbkpssb.mlobLgwgw’ibmwlmswbpoq
yrwnbeussbpssbquwbsufwbksuwia”bG.ybLgwgwblosnbsp. rwqbpybyrwbeuyjr
qljyltbklt,bgwuo bpoblsqbdpobpoqbpb twpybfuo ,brwbrpqbpjj.d.spywqbd.jr
euiqldbpoq,beuyrbyrwbpjz.uiuyuloblkbeuiqldbdpobuibdltwbuojsuowqbylbgw
ifwmyujpsbuobdpyywtiblkbtwsu uloa

“Nl.bdpnbsp. rbole,bLgwgw,”bipuqbyrwbeuyjrbqljylt,b“g.ybspywtbnl.beuss
olybsp. rabEpuybpoqbiwwa”

“Erwo,beuyrbdnbleobrpoqi,bUbfussbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,byrwobuoqwwqbirpssbU
sp. r,”btwmsuwqbyrwbjruwk,b“poqberwobUbpoqbdnbepttultibrpxwbwpywobrui
rwptybpoqbruibkswir,byrwo,buoqwwq,birpssbewbolbslo wtbkwptbponblkbnl.t
qwxusia”

“Epuy,”bjtuwqbyrwbeuyjrbqljyltbpo tusn,b“poqbnl.birpssbiwwa”

YrwnbyllfbyrwbImpouptq,biwj.twsnbgl.oq,bpoqbyrtwebrudbuoylbpbkusyrnbr.y,
yrtl. rbyrwbqlltepnblkberujrbrwbjl.sqbiwwbyrwbeldwoblkbyrwbxussp w
mtwmptuo bjllfuo bkutwibpoqbmlyibkltbyrwbkwpiyblkbyrwbjlduo bou ryabP
jlsqbiewpybiyllqbl.yb.mlobyrwbgtleblkbWiywgpobDutpoqpbpibrwbepyjrwq
yrwiwb t.wildwbmtwmptpyuloi,byrwbiu oukujpojwblkberujrbrwbjl.sqboly
duiuoywtmtwy,berwobjl.mswqbeuyrbyrwb wiy.twibpoqbyrwb spojwibyrpybewtw
qutwjywqbyleptqbyrwbr.yberwtwbrwbspn,bgnbyrwbuorpguypoyiblkbyrwbxussp wa

YrwbpkywtollobepibpsdliybimwoybpoqbyrwbImpouptqbkwsybyrpybrwbjl.sqbjl.oy
yrwbrl.tiblkbsukwbtwdpuouo bylbrudb.mlobmliiugsnbyelbkuo wtiblkblow
rpoq,berwobyrwtwbjpdwbktldbyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbtuxwtbpbiwtuwiblk
muwtjuo bijtwpdiberujrbirpyywtwqbyrwbz.uwyblkbyrwbv.o sw,bpoqbgtl. ry
yrwbuorpguypoyiblkbyrwbxussp wbylbiyptyswqbpyywoyulo,bpoqbpobuoiypoy
spywtbiwoybyrwdbuobpbdpqbt.irbuobyrwbqutwjyuloblkbyrwbkwpt-spqwo
irtuwfiabG.ybyrwnbewtwbyllbspywbpoqbtwpjrwqbyrwbtuxwtblosnbv.iybuobyudw
ylbiwwbpbeldpobqtp  wqbgwowpyrbyrwbi.tkpjwbgnbpbr. wbjtljlquswa

“Pr,bLgwgw,berpybquqbUbywssbnl.?”bqwdpoqwqbyrwbeuyjrbqljylt,bwh.sypoysna
“Pstwpqnbrpibyrwbqwxusb lqbjlddwojwqbruibtwxwo wb.mlobnl.tbmwlmswa”

Yrwbu oltpoybxussp wti,biywwmwqbuobi.mwtiyuyulo,bsllfwqbkwptk.ssnbktld
yrwutbeuyjrbqljyltbylbyrwutbjruwkabLgwgwbijleswq,b“RwbuibYptcpoblkbyrw
Pmwi,”brwbuoiuiywqa

“RwbuibyrwbtuxwtbqwxusberlbrpibypfwobyrwbirpmwblkbYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,”
uoiuiywqbyrwbeuyjrbqljylta

“Ewbirpssbiww,”btwmsuwqbLgwgwab“Ukbrwbuibyrwbtuxwtbqwxusbrwbjpobwijpmw
l.tbgloqiabUkbrwbuibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibrwbjpoolyabUkbrwbuibyrwbtuxwt
qwxusbrwbeussbolybquwbpbopy.tpsbqwpyr,bsufwbdwobquw,bg.ybeussbsuxwblo
kltwxwtabUkbrwbuibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwibildwbqpnbrwbeussbquwabEwbeussbfwwm
rud,byrwo,bpoqbiww,bpoqbyrpybeussbmtlxwberwyrwtbltbolybrwbuibYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwibltbyrwbtuxwtbqwxusa”

“Rle?”bpifwqbyrwbeuyjrbqljylta

“Uybuibxwtnbiudmsw,”btwmsuwqbLgwgwab“Ukbildwbdltouo bewbkuoqbyrpybrwbrpi
wijpmwqbewbeussbfolebyrpybrwbuibyrwbtuxwtbqwxus,bpoqbgwjp.iwbewbrpxwboly
rptdwqbrudbg.ybrpxwbkwqbrudbewssberuswbrwbrpibgwwobrwtwbuobl.tbxussp w,
rwbeussbgwktuwoqb.ibpoqbolbrptdbeussbjldwblkbuyabG.ybukbrwbqlwiboly
wijpmwbewbeussbfolebyrpybrwbuibYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwi,bmtlxuqwqbrwbquwibp
opy.tpsbqwpyrabPoqbil,bukbrwbqlwibolybwijpmw,bewbirpssbfwwmbrudb.oyusbrw
quwibpoqbyrwobewbirpssbfolebyrpybrwbepi,buoqwwq,bYptcpoblkbyrwbPmwia”

“G.ybi.mmliwbrwbqlwibolybquw?”bpifwqbyrwbeuyjrbqljylt,bijtpyjruo brui
ellssnbrwpqa

“Yrwo,”bwhjspudwqbLgwgwbytu.dmrpoysn,b“ewbeussbfolebyrpybnl.bptwbtu ry,
poqbyrpybrwbepi,buoqwwq,byrwbtuxwtbqwxusa”

LgwgwbewoybpoqbltqwtwqbeldwobylbypfwbkllqbylbyrwbImpouptqberuswbyrw
euyjrbqljyltbiyllq,berwtwbLgwgwbrpqbswkybrud,buobyrwbduqqswblkbyrw
iytwwy,biyussbijtpyjruo bruibrwpqbuobyrl. rya

Poqbyr.ibepibWiywgpobDutpoqp,bmliiwiiltblkbyrwbdliybkpg.sl.ibklty.owbuo
qupdloqibyrpybyrwbeltsqbrpqbwxwtbfoleo,bjloqwdowqbylbsukwbudmtuilodwoy
uobyrwbxussp wblkbLgwgw,byrwbjpoougpsa

Eruswbrwbrpqbgwwobsnuo buobyrwbr.ybruibytpuyltl.ibjlokwqwtpyw,bLepcp,
ktldbyrwblmmliuywbgpofblkbyrwbtuxwtbktldbyrwbimlyberwtwbrwbpoqbWiywgpo
rpqbruqqwobyrwb lsqwobuo lyi,bipebYptcpobpoqbruibEpcutubjldwbpoqbiwptjr
kltbyrwb lsqbpoqb lbpepnbp puo,bpoqbyrwbklssleuo bdltouo bLepcpbjpdw
euyrbkukynbdwoberldbrwbrpqbtwjt.uywqbktldbpbowu rgltuo bxussp wbpoqbq. 
.mbyrwb lsqbpoqbiyptywqbeuyrbuybyleptqbyrwbjlpiya

Yrpybou rybLepcpbdpqwbjpdmbv.iybl.yiuqwbpbyuonbxussp wblkbpbduoltbjruwk,
erlbepibewpfbuobepttultiabYrwblsqbkwsslebuoxuywqbLepcpbuoylbrui
jldml.oq,bpoqbyrwtwbrwbkwqbrudbpoqb pxwbrudbopyuxwbgwwt,beruswbyrw
jruwk’ibmwlmswbjutj.spywqbpdlo bLepcp’ibglnibmsnuo byrwdbeuyr
uoo.dwtpgswbz.wiyuloib.oyusbpybspiybyrwbyt.yrbswpfwqbl.ybpoqbyrwbjruwk
fowebyrpybLepcp’ibmltywtibewtwbjpttnuo bpb twpybiyltwblkbnwssleb lsqa

Erwobyrwbjruwkbswptowqbyruibkltbjwtypuobrwbepibd.jrbmwty.tgwq,bg.y
kuopssnbpbiduswbjtliiwqbruibkpjwbpibrwbypsfwqbeuyrbyrwbrpsk-qt.ofwo
Lepcpa

“Nl.brpxwbd.jrb lsqbeuyrbnl.,”bipuqbyrwblsqbjruwk,b“poqbuybuibxwtn
rwpxnabUybeussbgwbrptqbylb wybnl.tbglnibylbjpttnbuybpssbyrwbepnbgpjfbyl
yrwbjlpiya”

“Nwi,”bipuqbLepcp,b“g.ybUbirpssbmpnbyrwdbewssa”

“Ukbyrwnbquqbolybrpxwbylbjpttnbuybilbkptbktldbrldwbnl.bel.sqbolybrpxwbyl
mpnbyrwdbilbd.jr,bel.sqbnl.?”bpifwqbyrwbjruwka

“Ol,”bipuqbLepcp,b“g.ybUbjpoolybquimliwblkbuybyruibiuqwblkbyrwbjlpiya”

“Ubfoleberwtwbnl.bjpobquimliwblkbuybeuyruobyelbqpni’bdptjr,”btwmsuwqbyrw
lsqbjruwka

“Erwtw?”bqwdpoqwqbLepcpab“Poqberlbrwtwbuobyrwbuoywtultbeussbg.nbuy?”

“Yrwtwbuibpberuywbdpoberlbeussb uxwbnl.bpbsuyyswbmuwjwblkbmpmwtbkltbuy
poqbnl.bjpobypfwbyrpybmpmwtbylbyrwbjlpiybpoqb wybyrwbk.ssbxps.wblkbnl.t
 lsqa”

“Erlbuibyruiberuywbdpo?”bqwdpoqwqbLepcp,b“poqberwtwbuibrw?”

“Rwbuibpbktuwoqblkbduow,”bipuqbyrwbjruwk,b“poqbukbnl.beuirbUbeussbypfw
nl.bylbrudblobyrwbdlttle,bpoqbnl.bjpobgtuo beuyrbnl.bpssbnl.tb lsqbpoq
 wybyrwbsuyyswbmuwjwblkbmpmwta”

“ llq,”bipuqbLepcp,b“poqbyrwobUbirpssbolybrpxwbylbmpnbyrwbjpttuwtibg.ybp
xwtnbidpssbpdl.oya”

Yrwbjpttuwtibewtwb spq,buoqwwq,bylbswptobyrwbowhybqpnbyrpybyrwnbewtwboly
ylb lbpssbyrwbepnbylbyrwbjlpiy,bkltbwxwobyrwbs.twblkbmpndwoybepiboly
i.kkujuwoybylblxwtjldwbyrwutbquisufwbylbilbslo bpbvl.town,bpoqbyrwut
kwptblkbgwuo bpybilb twpybpbquiypojwbktldbrldwabYrwnbewtwbxwtnbrpmmn,
yrwtwkltw,bpibyrwnbiwybkltyrblobpbyelbqpni’bdptjrbyleptqbyrwboltyrwpiya
PoqbLepcpbepibrpmmnbpoqbilbepibyrwblsqbjruwk,berlbpjjldmpouwqbyrwd
rudiwsk,byrl. rbernbrwbepibrpmmnbpgl.ybuybLepcpbjl.sqbolyb .wiia

Yrwnbrpqbdptjrwqbkltbpsdliybyelbqpniberwobyrwbjruwkbiwoyblowblkbruibleo
dwobklteptqbeuyrbpbdwiip wa

“Uybuibylbdnbktuwoq,”brwbipuq,b“ylbywssbrudbylbjldwbpoqbdwwyb.ibpoqbswpq
.ibylbruibxussp wa”bPoqbpbkwebrl.tibspywt,bpibyrwbsuyyswbjptpxpobwdwt wq
ktldbyrwbv.o swbloylbpbgtlpq,b tpiinbmspuo,byrwnbipebolybkptbktldbyrwd,
poqbpmmtlpjruo btpmuqsn,bpbspt wbgpoqblkbepttultiabLepcpbrpsywqa

“Erlbptwbyrliw?”brwbqwdpoqwqa

“Yrliwbptwbyrwbepttultiblkbdnbktuwoq,”btwmsuwqbyrwbjruwk,b“poqbrwbui
euyrbyrwdabIww?”bpoqbrwbmluoywqbyleptqbpbku .twbpybyrwbrwpqblkbyrw
gspjfi,berlbewtwbpmmtlpjruo bpybpbytly,byrwutbimwptibpoqberuywbms.dwi
 swpduo buobyrwbi.oiruowa

“Yrwnbjldwbkltbeptbpoqbolybkltbmwpjw,”bipuqbLepcpbywptk.ssna

“Yrpybqwmwoqib.mlobnl.,bLepcp,”btwmsuwqbyrwbjruwka

“Ubqlbolyb.oqwtiypoqbnl.,”bipuqbLepcpa

“G.ybnl.beussbuobpbkwebduo.ywibpkywtbdnbktuwoqbrpibjldwa”

Pibyrwbpqxpojuo bepttultibpmmtlpjrwqbdltwbjsliwsnbLepcpbipebpb upoy
eruywbpybyrwutbrwpq—pberuywberldbrwbduiyllfbkltbWiywgpo—yrw
jlokwqwtpywbrwbrpqbilbytpuyltl.isnbqwiwtywqabRwby.towqb.mlobyrwbjruwka
“Nl.brpxwbgwytpnwqbdw,”brwbjtuwqa

“Epuy,”bipuqbyrwblsqbjruwk;b“olyruo byrpybgwslo ibylbnl.birpssbgwbypfwo
ktldbnl.a”

“Yrwb lsqbuibolybrui,”bjtuwqbLepcpab“Rwbiylswbuy,”bpoqbrwbmluoywqbpy
Yptcpoberlbrpqbpmmtlpjrwqbpoqbrpsywqbgwkltwbrud,bg.yberlbu oltwqbrud
woyutwsnbpoqby.towqbylbyrwbjruwka

“Nl.tbt.oowtbjpdw,”brwbipuqbylbyrwblsqbdpo,b“poqbgtl. rybnl.tbdwiip w,
poqbYptcpobpoqbruibEpcutubrpxwbjldwbylbiwwberpybyrwnbjl.sqbqlbkltbyrwut
lsqbktuwoqa”

Yrwbjruwkbiduswqab“Nl.tbt.oowtbjpdwbylbdw,bLbYptcpo,bkl.tbqpnibiuojw,
poqbyelbqpnibspywtbjpdwbyruibdpobeuyrbruibjpttuwti,bgwptuo b lsqwo
uo lyibyleptqbyrwbjlpiyabUbylsqbrudbyrpybUbrpqbpbktuwoqberlbel.sqbg.n
yrwd,b uxuo brudbpbsuyyswbmuwjwblkbmpmwtbkltbyrwd,bg.ybyrpy,blkbjl.tiw,
losnbuobjpiwbyrwb lsqbgwslo wqbylbLepcpa”

Yrwbpmw-dpobiduswqab“Nl.brpxwbqlowbewss,bdnbktuwoq,”brwbipuqab“Yrwb lsq
qlwibolybgwslo bylbLepcpa”

“Uybqlwibolybgwslo bylbnl.,bwuyrwt,”bjtuwqbLepcpab“Nl.bptwbolybYptcpoblk
yrwbPmwiabUbfolebnl.abNl.bjpdwbeuyrbyrwbkl.tberuywbdwobpoqbyrwberuyw
eldpobylbiywpsbyrwb lsqbktldbYptcpo’ibjl.oytn,bpoqbyrwobnl.biylswbuy
ktldbnl.tbleobktuwoqia”

YrwbjruwkbpoqbyrwbEpcutubsp. rwqabYrwbpmw-dpobiduswqblowblkbruibisle
iduswia

“Yrwblyrwtbepibpobudmliylt,bLepcp,”brwbipuq,b“g.yb_U_bpdbYptcpoblkbyrw
Pmwi,bpoqbUbyrpofbnl.bkltbgtuo uo bdnb lsqbylbdwabJldw,”brwbipuq,b“uybui
g.ybpbkwebdltwbduswibylbdnbrldw,”bpoqbyrwbpmw-dpobjldmwsswqbLepcpbyl
qutwjybruibjpttuwtibylbgwptbyrwb lsqwobuo lyibylbyrwb twniylfwbg.o pslea
YrwtwbYptcpobkwqbyrwbjpttuwtibpoqbmpuqbyrwd,bpoqbyrwbowhybdltouo biwoy
yrwdbgpjfbyleptqbyrwutbleobjl.oytn,bpoqbrwbiwoybLepcpbeuyrbyrwd,bg.yboly
euyrl.ybpb ukyblkbxps.w,bpjjldmpouwqbeuyrbpobpqdlouyulobyrpybyrwbgspjf
owxwtbp puobtwy.tobylbYptcpo’ibjl.oytna

Erwobyrwnbrpqbpssbqwmptywq,bpoqbYptcpobpoqbVpowbpoqbFltpfbewtwbiypoquo 
.mlobyrwbxwtpoqpblkbyrwbg.o pslebeuyrbVpq-gps-vpbsnuo bpybyrwutbkwwy,
yrwbpmw-dpobyrtwebpobptdbpgl.ybruibdpyw’ibirl.sqwtia

“UbirpssbrpxwbylbtwytpjyberpybUbipuqbpgl.ybyrwb lsqblkbLmptbolybgwuo 
kltbdw,bkltbnl.biwwbgwkltwbnl.bpbowebklty.owbyrpybrpibjldwbpssbyrwbepn
ktldbyrwbytwpi.twbxp.syiblkbLmptbeuyrl.ybponbwkkltyblobdnbmptya”

“Ole,bukbildwlowbel.sqblosnbgtuo bnl.tbqupdloqibgpjf,”bsp. rwqbVpowa

“Olbjrpojwblkbyrpy,”bipuqbYptcpoab“Yrwnbptwb.oz.wiyulopgsnbpybyrwbglyyld
lkbyrwb. l lbTuxwt,”bpoqbkptbpepn,b.mlobyrwbgpofiblkbyrwb. l l,buobyrw
xussp wblkbLgwgw,byrwbjpoougps,bWiywgpobDutpoqpbspnbuobyrwbkusyrblkbyrw
r.ybyrpybrpqbgwwobpiiu owqbylbrud,b slpyuo blxwtbyrwbklty.owbyrpybrw
jl.sqbowxwtb.yusucwbpibrwbwoywtwqb.mlobpbsukwblkbjpmyuxuynbyrpybyrw
iy.ggltoowiibpoqbi.mwtiyuyuloblkbLgwgwbrpqbqlldwqbrudbylb.oqwt la




bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbYTPOIJTUGWTbOLYWI

DuiimwsswqbeltqibpoqbmtuoywtbwttltibrpxwbgwwobjlttwjywqabErwtwbd.syumsw
imwssuo ibljj.t,bdpvltuynb.iwbrpibgwwobwdmslnwqa

M.ojy.pyulobrpibgwwobdpuoypuowqbwhjwmyberwtwblgxul.ibmtuoywtbwttlti
ljj.ta

Uss.iytpyuloibgnbVpdwibPsswobIyabVlrob(1872-1957)bewtwbdlxwqbyl
kpjusuypywbmp wbspnl.yabYrwbjlxwtbuibyrwbltu uopsbkutiybwquyulobjlxwt,
psilbuss.iytpywqbgnbVpdwibPsswobIyabVlroa










WoqblkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt 'ibYptcpobpoqbyrwb lsqwobSulo,bgnbWq ptbTujwbG.ttl. ri

***bWOQbLKbYRUIbMTLVWJYb .YWOGWT bWGLLFbYPTCPObPOQbYRWb LSQWObSULOb***

*****bYruibkuswbirl.sqbgwbopdwqb58874-0ayhybltb58874-0acumb*****
Yruibpoqbpssbpiiljupywqbkuswiblkbxptul.ibkltdpyibeussbgwbkl.oqbuo:
bbbbbbbbryym://eeea .ywogwt alt /5/8/8/7/58874/

Mtlq.jwqbgnbPsbRpuowi,bJuoqnbGwnwtb&byrwblosuowbQuiytug.ywq
MtllktwpqwtibJpopqpbywpdbpybryym://eeeam qmjpopqpaowy

.mqpywqbwquyuloibeussbtwmspjwbyrwbmtwxul.iblow--yrwblsqbwquyuloibeuss
gwbtwopdwqa

Jtwpyuo byrwbeltfibktldbmtuoybwquyuloibolybmtlywjywqbgnb.aIabjlmntu ry
spebdwpoibyrpybolblowbleoibpb.ouywqbIypywibjlmntu rybuobyrwiwbeltfi,
ilbyrwbKl.oqpyulob(poqbnl.!)bjpobjlmnbpoqbquiytug.ywbuybuobyrwb.ouywq
Iypywibeuyrl.ybmwtduiiulobpoqbeuyrl.ybmpnuo bjlmntu ry
tlnpsyuwiabImwjupsbt.swi,biwybkltyrbuobyrwb wowtpsbYwtdiblkb.iwbmpty
lkbyruibsujwoiw,bpmmsnbylbjlmnuo bpoqbquiytug.yuo bMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfibylbmtlywjybyrwbMTLVWJYb .YWOGWT -yd
jlojwmybpoqbytpqwdptfabMtlvwjyb .ywogwt buibpbtw uiywtwqbytpqwdptf,
poqbdpnbolybgwb.iwqbukbnl.bjrpt wbkltbyrwbwGllfi,b.oswiibnl.btwjwuxw
imwjukujbmwtduiiuloabUkbnl.bqlbolybjrpt wbponyruo bkltbjlmuwiblkbyrui
wGllf,bjldmsnuo beuyrbyrwbt.swibuibxwtnbwpinabNl.bdpnb.iwbyruibwGllf
kltbowptsnbponbm.tmliwbi.jrbpibjtwpyuloblkbqwtuxpyuxwbeltfi,btwmltyi,
mwtkltdpojwibpoqbtwiwptjrabYrwnbdpnbgwbdlqukuwqbpoqbmtuoywqbpoqb uxwo
pepn--nl.bdpnbqlbmtpjyujpssnbPONYRUO buobyrwb.ouywqbIypywibeuyrbwGllfi
olybmtlywjywqbgnb.aIabjlmntu rybspeabTwquiytug.yulobuibi.gvwjybylbyrw
ytpqwdptfbsujwoiw,bwimwjupssnbjlddwtjupsbtwquiytug.yuloa

IYPTY:bK.SSbSUJWOIW

YRWbK.SSbMTLVWJYb .YWOGWT bSUJWOIW
MSWPIWbTWPQbYRUIbGWKLTWbNL.bQUIYTUG.YWbLTb.IWbYRUIbELTF

YlbmtlywjybyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbduiiuloblkbmtldlyuo byrwbktww
quiytug.yuloblkbwswjytloujbeltfi,bgnb.iuo bltbquiytug.yuo byruibeltf
(ltbponblyrwtbeltfbpiiljupywqbuobponbepnbeuyrbyrwbmrtpiwb"Mtlvwjy
 .ywogwt "),bnl.bp twwbylbjldmsnbeuyrbpssbyrwbywtdiblkbyrwbK.ss
Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbSujwoiwbpxpuspgswbeuyrbyruibkuswbltblosuowbpy
eeea .ywogwt alt /sujwoiwa

Iwjyulob1ab wowtpsbYwtdiblkb.iwbpoqbTwquiytug.yuo bMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfi

1aPabGnbtwpquo bltb.iuo bponbmptyblkbyruibMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
wswjytloujbeltf,bnl.buoqujpywbyrpybnl.brpxwbtwpq,b.oqwtiypoq,bp twwbyl
poqbpjjwmybpssbyrwbywtdiblkbyruibsujwoiwbpoqbuoywsswjy.psbmtlmwtyn
(ytpqwdptf/jlmntu ry)bp twwdwoyabUkbnl.bqlbolybp twwbylbpguqwbgnbpss
yrwbywtdiblkbyruibp twwdwoy,bnl.bd.iybjwpiwb.iuo bpoqbtwy.toblt
qwiytlnbpssbjlmuwiblkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfibuobnl.t
mliiwiiuloabUkbnl.bmpuqbpbkwwbkltblgypuouo bpbjlmnblkbltbpjjwiibylbp
Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfbpoqbnl.bqlbolybp twwbylbgwbgl.oq
gnbyrwbywtdiblkbyruibp twwdwoy,bnl.bdpnblgypuobpbtwk.oqbktldbyrw
mwtilobltbwoyuynbylberldbnl.bmpuqbyrwbkwwbpibiwybkltyrbuobmptp tpmr
1aWa8a

1aGab"Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt "buibpbtw uiywtwqbytpqwdptfabUybdpnblosnbgw
.iwqblobltbpiiljupywqbuobponbepnbeuyrbpobwswjytloujbeltfbgnbmwlmswberl
p twwbylbgwbgl.oqbgnbyrwbywtdiblkbyruibp twwdwoyabYrwtwbptwbpbkwe
yruo ibyrpybnl.bjpobqlbeuyrbdliybMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfi
wxwobeuyrl.ybjldmsnuo beuyrbyrwbk.ssbywtdiblkbyruibp twwdwoyabIww
mptp tpmrb1aJbgwsleabYrwtwbptwbpbslyblkbyruo ibnl.bjpobqlbeuyrbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfibukbnl.bklsslebyrwbywtdiblkbyrui
p twwdwoybpoqbrwsmbmtwiwtxwbktwwbk.y.twbpjjwiibylbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
wswjytloujbeltfiabIwwbmptp tpmrb1aWbgwslea

1aJabYrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyulob("yrw
Kl.oqpyulo"bltbM SPK),bleoibpbjldmuspyulobjlmntu rybuobyrwbjlsswjyulo
lkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfiabOwptsnbpssbyrwbuoquxuq.ps
eltfibuobyrwbjlsswjyulobptwbuobyrwbm.gsujbqldpuobuobyrwb.ouywq
IypywiabUkbpobuoquxuq.psbeltfbuib.omtlywjywqbgnbjlmntu rybspebuobyrw
.ouywqbIypywibpoqbnl.bptwbsljpywqbuobyrwb.ouywqbIypywi,bewbqlboly
jspudbpbtu rybylbmtwxwoybnl.bktldbjlmnuo ,bquiytug.yuo ,bmwtkltduo ,
quimspnuo bltbjtwpyuo bqwtuxpyuxwbeltfibgpiwqblobyrwbeltfbpibslo bpi
pssbtwkwtwojwibylbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bptwbtwdlxwqabLkbjl.tiw,bewbrlmw
yrpybnl.beussbi.mmltybyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbduiiuloblkbmtldlyuo 
ktwwbpjjwiibylbwswjytloujbeltfibgnbktwwsnbirptuo bMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
eltfibuobjldmsupojwbeuyrbyrwbywtdiblkbyruibp twwdwoybkltbfwwmuo byrw
Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbopdwbpiiljupywqbeuyrbyrwbeltfabNl.bjpobwpiusn
jldmsnbeuyrbyrwbywtdiblkbyruibp twwdwoybgnbfwwmuo byruibeltfbuobyrw
ipdwbkltdpybeuyrbuyibpyypjrwqbk.ssbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbSujwoiwberwo
nl.birptwbuybeuyrl.ybjrpt wbeuyrblyrwtia

1aQabYrwbjlmntu rybspeiblkbyrwbmspjwberwtwbnl.bptwbsljpywqbpsilb lxwto
erpybnl.bjpobqlbeuyrbyruibeltfabJlmntu rybspeibuobdliybjl.oytuwibptw
uobpbjloiypoybiypywblkbjrpo wabUkbnl.bptwbl.yiuqwbyrwb.ouywqbIypywi,
jrwjfbyrwbspeiblkbnl.tbjl.oytnbuobpqquyulobylbyrwbywtdiblkbyrui
p twwdwoybgwkltwbqleoslpquo ,bjlmnuo ,bquimspnuo ,bmwtkltduo ,
quiytug.yuo bltbjtwpyuo bqwtuxpyuxwbeltfibgpiwqblobyruibeltfbltbpon
lyrwtbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbeltfabYrwbKl.oqpyulobdpfwibol
twmtwiwoypyuloibjlojwtouo byrwbjlmntu rybiypy.iblkbponbeltfbuobpon
jl.oytnbl.yiuqwbyrwb.ouywqbIypywia

1aWab.oswiibnl.brpxwbtwdlxwqbpssbtwkwtwojwibylbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt :

1aWa1abYrwbklssleuo biwoywojw,beuyrbpjyuxwbsuofibyl,bltblyrwt
uddwqupywbpjjwiibyl,byrwbk.ssbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbSujwoiwbd.iybpmmwpt
mtlduowoysnberwowxwtbponbjlmnblkbpbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbeltfb(ponbeltf
loberujrbyrwbmrtpiwb"Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt "bpmmwpti,bltbeuyrberujrbyrw
mrtpiwb"Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt "buibpiiljupywq)buibpjjwiiwq,bquimspnwq,
mwtkltdwq,bxuwewq,bjlmuwqbltbquiytug.ywq:

bbYruibwGllfbuibkltbyrwb.iwblkbponlowbponerwtwbuobyrwb.ouywqbIypywibpoq
bbdliyblyrwtbmptyiblkbyrwbeltsqbpybolbjliybpoqbeuyrbpsdliybol
bbtwiytujyuloiberpyilwxwtabNl.bdpnbjlmnbuy,b uxwbuybpepnbltbtw-.iwbuy
bb.oqwtbyrwbywtdiblkbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSujwoiwbuojs.qwqbeuyrbyrui
bbwGllfbltblosuowbpybeeea .ywogwt alt abUkbnl.bptwbolybsljpywqbuobyrw
bb.ouywqbIypywi,bnl.'ssbrpxwbylbjrwjfbyrwbspeiblkbyrwbjl.oytnberwtwbnl.
bbptwbsljpywqbgwkltwb.iuo byruibwgllfa

1aWa2abUkbpobuoquxuq.psbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfbui
qwtuxwqbktldbywhyibolybmtlywjywqbgnb.aIabjlmntu rybspeb(qlwiboly
jloypuobpbolyujwbuoqujpyuo byrpybuybuibmliywqbeuyrbmwtduiiuloblkbyrw
jlmntu rybrlsqwt),byrwbeltfbjpobgwbjlmuwqbpoqbquiytug.ywqbylbponlowbuo
yrwb.ouywqbIypywibeuyrl.ybmpnuo bponbkwwibltbjrpt wiabUkbnl.bptw
twquiytug.yuo bltbmtlxuquo bpjjwiibylbpbeltfbeuyrbyrwbmrtpiwb"Mtlvwjy
 .ywogwt "bpiiljupywqbeuyrbltbpmmwptuo blobyrwbeltf,bnl.bd.iybjldmsn
wuyrwtbeuyrbyrwbtwz.utwdwoyiblkbmptp tpmrib1aWa1byrtl. rb1aWa7blt
lgypuobmwtduiiulobkltbyrwb.iwblkbyrwbeltfbpoqbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
ytpqwdptfbpibiwybkltyrbuobmptp tpmrib1aWa8bltb1aWa9a

1aWa3abUkbpobuoquxuq.psbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfbuibmliywq
euyrbyrwbmwtduiiuloblkbyrwbjlmntu rybrlsqwt,bnl.tb.iwbpoqbquiytug.yulo
d.iybjldmsnbeuyrbglyrbmptp tpmrib1aWa1byrtl. rb1aWa7bpoqbpon
pqquyulopsbywtdibudmliwqbgnbyrwbjlmntu rybrlsqwtabPqquyulopsbywtdi
eussbgwbsuofwqbylbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbSujwoiwbkltbpssbeltfi
mliywqbeuyrbyrwbmwtduiiuloblkbyrwbjlmntu rybrlsqwtbkl.oqbpybyrw
gw uoouo blkbyruibeltfa

1aWa4abQlbolyb.osuofbltbqwypjrbltbtwdlxwbyrwbk.ssbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
Sujwoiwbywtdibktldbyruibeltf,bltbponbkuswibjloypuouo bpbmptyblkbyrui
eltfbltbponblyrwtbeltfbpiiljupywqbeuyrbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yda

1aWa5abQlbolybjlmn,bquimspn,bmwtkltd,bquiytug.ywbltbtwquiytug.ywbyrui
wswjytloujbeltf,bltbponbmptyblkbyruibwswjytloujbeltf,beuyrl.y
mtlduowoysnbquimspnuo byrwbiwoywojwbiwybkltyrbuobmptp tpmrb1aWa1beuyr
pjyuxwbsuofibltbuddwqupywbpjjwiibylbyrwbk.ssbywtdiblkbyrwbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbSujwoiwa

1aWa6abNl.bdpnbjloxwtybylbpoqbquiytug.ywbyruibeltfbuobponbguoptn,
jldmtwiiwq,bdptfwqb.m,bolomtlmtuwyptnbltbmtlmtuwyptnbkltd,buojs.quo 
ponbeltqbmtljwiiuo bltbrnmwtywhybkltdabRlewxwt,bukbnl.bmtlxuqwbpjjwii
ylbltbquiytug.ywbjlmuwiblkbpbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbeltfbuobpbkltdpy
lyrwtbyrpob"MspuobXpousspbPIJUU"bltblyrwtbkltdpyb.iwqbuobyrwblkkujups
xwtiulobmliywqblobyrwblkkujupsbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbewgbiuyw
(eeea .ywogwt alt ),bnl.bd.iy,bpybolbpqquyulopsbjliy,bkwwbltbwhmwoiw
ylbyrwb.iwt,bmtlxuqwbpbjlmn,bpbdwpoiblkbwhmltyuo bpbjlmn,bltbpbdwpoi
lkblgypuouo bpbjlmnb.mlobtwz.wiy,blkbyrwbeltfbuobuyibltu uopsb"Mspuo
XpousspbPIJUU"bltblyrwtbkltdabPonbpsywtopywbkltdpybd.iybuojs.qwbyrw
k.ssbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbSujwoiwbpibimwjukuwqbuobmptp tpmrb1aWa1a

1aWa7abQlbolybjrpt wbpbkwwbkltbpjjwiibyl,bxuweuo ,bquimspnuo ,
mwtkltduo ,bjlmnuo bltbquiytug.yuo bponbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbeltfi
.oswiibnl.bjldmsnbeuyrbmptp tpmrb1aWa8bltb1aWa9a

1aWa8abNl.bdpnbjrpt wbpbtwpilopgswbkwwbkltbjlmuwiblkbltbmtlxuquo 
pjjwiibylbltbquiytug.yuo bMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfi
mtlxuqwqbyrpy

*bNl.bmpnbpbtlnpsynbkwwblkb20%blkbyrwb tliibmtlkuyibnl.bqwtuxwbktld
bbyrwb.iwblkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbeltfibjpsj.spywqb.iuo byrwbdwyrlq
bbnl.bpstwpqnb.iwbylbjpsj.spywbnl.tbpmmsujpgswbyphwiabYrwbkwwbuiblewq
bbylbyrwbleowtblkbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbytpqwdptf,bg.ybrwbrpi
bbp twwqbylbqlopywbtlnpsyuwib.oqwtbyruibmptp tpmrbylbyrwbMtlvwjy
bb .ywogwt bSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyuloabTlnpsynbmpndwoyibd.iybgwbmpuq
bbeuyruob60bqpnibklssleuo bwpjrbqpywbloberujrbnl.bmtwmptwb(ltbptw
bbsw pssnbtwz.utwqbylbmtwmptw)bnl.tbmwtulqujbyphbtwy.toiabTlnpsyn
bbmpndwoyibirl.sqbgwbjswptsnbdptfwqbpibi.jrbpoqbiwoybylbyrwbMtlvwjy
bb .ywogwt bSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyulobpybyrwbpqqtwiibimwjukuwqbuo
bbIwjyulob4,b"Uokltdpyulobpgl.ybqlopyuloibylbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt 
bbSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyuloa"

*bNl.bmtlxuqwbpbk.ssbtwk.oqblkbponbdlownbmpuqbgnbpb.iwtberlbolyukuwi
bbnl.buobetuyuo b(ltbgnbw-dpus)beuyruob30bqpniblkbtwjwumybyrpybi/rw
bbqlwibolybp twwbylbyrwbywtdiblkbyrwbk.ssbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
bbSujwoiwabNl.bd.iybtwz.utwbi.jrbpb.iwtbylbtwy.tobltbqwiytlnbpss
bbjlmuwiblkbyrwbeltfibmliiwiiwqbuobpbmrniujpsbdwqu.dbpoqbquijloyuo.w
bbpssb.iwblkbpoqbpssbpjjwiibylblyrwtbjlmuwiblkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
bbeltfia

*bNl.bmtlxuqw,buobpjjltqpojwbeuyrbmptp tpmrb1aKa3,bpbk.ssbtwk.oqblk
bbponbdlownbmpuqbkltbpbeltfbltbpbtwmspjwdwoybjlmn,bukbpbqwkwjybuobyrw
bbwswjytloujbeltfbuibquijlxwtwqbpoqbtwmltywqbylbnl.beuyruob90bqpniblk
bbtwjwumyblkbyrwbeltfa

*bNl.bjldmsnbeuyrbpssblyrwtbywtdiblkbyruibp twwdwoybkltbktww
bbquiytug.yuloblkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbeltfia

1aWa9abUkbnl.beuirbylbjrpt wbpbkwwbltbquiytug.ywbpbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfbltb tl.mblkbeltfiblobqukkwtwoybywtdibyrpo
ptwbiwybkltyrbuobyruibp twwdwoy,bnl.bd.iyblgypuobmwtduiiulobuobetuyuo 
ktldbglyrbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyulobpoqbYrw
Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt bYtpqwdptfbSSJ,byrwbleowtblkbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
ytpqwdptfabJloypjybyrwbKl.oqpyulobpibiwybkltyrbuobIwjyulob3bgwslea

1aKa

1aKa1abMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bxls.oywwtibpoqbwdmslnwwibwhmwoqbjloiuqwtpgsw
wkkltybylbuqwoyukn,bqlbjlmntu rybtwiwptjrblo,bytpoijtugwbpoqbmtllktwpq
eltfibolybmtlywjywqbgnb.aIabjlmntu rybspebuobjtwpyuo byrwbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbjlsswjyuloabQwimuywbyrwiwbwkkltyi,bMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
wswjytloujbeltfi,bpoqbyrwbdwqu.dbloberujrbyrwnbdpnbgwbiyltwq,bdpn
jloypuob"Qwkwjyi,"bi.jrbpi,bg.ybolybsuduywqbyl,buojldmswyw,buopjj.tpyw
ltbjltt.mybqpyp,bytpoijtumyulobwttlti,bpbjlmntu rybltblyrwt
uoywsswjy.psbmtlmwtynbuoktuo wdwoy,bpbqwkwjyuxwbltbqpdp wqbquifblt
lyrwtbdwqu.d,bpbjldm.ywtbxut.i,bltbjldm.ywtbjlqwibyrpybqpdp wblt
jpoolybgwbtwpqbgnbnl.tbwz.umdwoya

1aKa2abSUDUYWQbEPTTPOYN,bQUIJSPUDWTbLKbQPDP WIb-bWhjwmybkltbyrwb"Tu ry
lkbTwmspjwdwoybltbTwk.oq"bqwijtugwqbuobmptp tpmrb1aKa3,byrwbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt bSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyulo,byrwbleowtblkbyrwbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbytpqwdptf,bpoqbponblyrwtbmptynbquiytug.yuo bpbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfb.oqwtbyruibp twwdwoy,bquijspudbpss
supgusuynbylbnl.bkltbqpdp wi,bjliyibpoqbwhmwoiwi,buojs.quo bsw ps
kwwiabNL.bP TWWbYRPYbNL.bRPXWbOLbTWDWQUWIbKLTbOW SU WOJW,bIYTUJY
SUPGUSUYN,bGTWPJRbLKbEPTTPOYNbLTbGTWPJRbLKbJLOYTPJYbWHJWMYbYRLIW
MTLXUQWQbUObMPTP TPMRb1aKa3abNL.bP TWWbYRPYbYRWbKL.OQPYULO,bYRW
YTPQWDPTFbLEOWT,bPOQbPONbQUIYTUG.YLTb.OQWTbYRUIbP TWWDWOYbEUSSbOLYbGW
SUPGSWbYLbNL.bKLTbPJY.PS,bQUTWJY,bUOQUTWJY,bJLOIWZ.WOYUPS,bM.OUYUXWbLT
UOJUQWOYPSbQPDP WIbWXWObUKbNL.b UXWbOLYUJWbLKbYRWbMLIIUGUSUYNbLKbI.JR
QPDP Wa

1aKa3abSUDUYWQbTU RYbLKbTWMSPJWDWOYbLTbTWK.OQb-bUkbnl.bquijlxwtbp
qwkwjybuobyruibwswjytloujbeltfbeuyruob90bqpniblkbtwjwuxuo buy,bnl.bjpo
twjwuxwbpbtwk.oqblkbyrwbdlownb(ukbpon)bnl.bmpuqbkltbuybgnbiwoquo bp
etuyywobwhmspopyulobylbyrwbmwtilobnl.btwjwuxwqbyrwbeltfbktldabUkbnl.
twjwuxwqbyrwbeltfblobpbmrniujpsbdwqu.d,bnl.bd.iybtwy.tobyrwbdwqu.d
euyrbnl.tbetuyywobwhmspopyuloabYrwbmwtilobltbwoyuynbyrpybmtlxuqwqbnl.
euyrbyrwbqwkwjyuxwbeltfbdpnbwswjybylbmtlxuqwbpbtwmspjwdwoybjlmnbuo
suw.blkbpbtwk.oqabUkbnl.btwjwuxwqbyrwbeltfbwswjytloujpssn,byrwbmwtilo
ltbwoyuynbmtlxuquo buybylbnl.bdpnbjrlliwbylb uxwbnl.bpbiwjloq
lmmlty.ouynbylbtwjwuxwbyrwbeltfbwswjytloujpssnbuobsuw.blkbpbtwk.oqabUk
yrwbiwjloqbjlmnbuibpsilbqwkwjyuxw,bnl.bdpnbqwdpoqbpbtwk.oqbuobetuyuo 
euyrl.ybk.tyrwtblmmlty.ouyuwibylbkuhbyrwbmtlgswda

1aKa4abWhjwmybkltbyrwbsuduywqbtu ryblkbtwmspjwdwoybltbtwk.oqbiwybkltyr
uobmptp tpmrb1aKa3,byruibeltfbuibmtlxuqwqbylbnl.b'PI-UI',bEUYRbOL
LYRWTbEPTTPOYUWIbLKbPONbFUOQ,bWHMTWIIbLTbUDMSUWQ,bUOJS.QUO bG.YbOLY
SUDUYWQbYLbEPTTPOYUWIbLKbDWTJRPOYPGUSUYNbLTbKUYOWIIbKLTbPONbM.TMLIWa

1aKa5abIldwbiypywibqlbolybpsslebquijspudwtiblkbjwtypuobudmsuwq
epttpoyuwibltbyrwbwhjs.iulobltbsuduypyuloblkbjwtypuobynmwiblk
qpdp wiabUkbponbquijspudwtbltbsuduypyulobiwybkltyrbuobyruibp twwdwoy
xulspywibyrwbspeblkbyrwbiypywbpmmsujpgswbylbyruibp twwdwoy,byrw
p twwdwoybirpssbgwbuoywtmtwywqbylbdpfwbyrwbdphud.dbquijspudwtblt
suduypyulobmwtduyywqbgnbyrwbpmmsujpgswbiypywbspeabYrwbuoxpsuquynblt
.owokltjwpgusuynblkbponbmtlxuiuloblkbyruibp twwdwoybirpssbolybxluqbyrw
twdpuouo bmtlxuiuloia

1aKa6abUOQWDOUYNb-bNl.bp twwbylbuoqwdouknbpoqbrlsqbyrwbKl.oqpyulo,byrw
ytpqwdptfbleowt,bponbp woybltbwdmslnwwblkbyrwbKl.oqpyulo,bponlow
mtlxuquo bjlmuwiblkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfibuo
pjjltqpojwbeuyrbyruibp twwdwoy,bpoqbponbxls.oywwtibpiiljupywqbeuyrbyrw
mtlq.jyulo,bmtldlyulobpoqbquiytug.yuloblkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd
wswjytloujbeltfi,brptdswiibktldbpssbsupgusuyn,bjliyibpoqbwhmwoiwi,
uojs.quo bsw psbkwwi,byrpybptuiwbqutwjysnbltbuoqutwjysnbktldbponblk
yrwbklssleuo berujrbnl.bqlbltbjp.iwbylbljj.t:b(p)bquiytug.yuloblkbyrui
ltbponbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbeltf,b(g)bpsywtpyulo,bdlqukujpyulo,blt
pqquyuloibltbqwswyuloibylbponbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbeltf,bpoqb(j)bpon
Qwkwjybnl.bjp.iwa

Iwjyulob2abUokltdpyulobpgl.ybyrwbDuiiuloblkbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd

Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbuibinolondl.ibeuyrbyrwbktwwbquiytug.yuloblk
wswjytloujbeltfibuobkltdpyibtwpqpgswbgnbyrwbeuqwiybxptuwynblk
jldm.ywtibuojs.quo blgilswyw,blsq,bduqqsw-p wqbpoqbowebjldm.ywtiabUy
whuiyibgwjp.iwblkbyrwbwkkltyiblkbr.oqtwqiblkbxls.oywwtibpoqbqlopyuloi
ktldbmwlmswbuobpssbepsfiblkbsukwa

Xls.oywwtibpoqbkuopojupsbi.mmltybylbmtlxuqwbxls.oywwtibeuyrbyrw
piiuiypojwbyrwnbowwqbptwbjtuyujpsbylbtwpjruo bMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd'i
 lpsibpoqbwoi.tuo byrpybyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbjlsswjyulobeuss
twdpuobktwwsnbpxpuspgswbkltb wowtpyuloibylbjldwabUob2001,byrwbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt bSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyulobepibjtwpywqbylbmtlxuqwbpbiwj.tw
poqbmwtdpowoybk.y.twbkltbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbpoqbk.y.tw
 wowtpyuloiabYlbswptobdltwbpgl.ybyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSuywtptn
PtjruxwbKl.oqpyulobpoqbrlebnl.tbwkkltyibpoqbqlopyuloibjpobrwsm,biww
Iwjyuloib3bpoqb4bpoqbyrwbKl.oqpyulobuokltdpyulobmp wbpy
eeea .ywogwt alt 



Iwjyulob3abUokltdpyulobpgl.ybyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyulo

YrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyulobuibpbolobmtlkuy
501(j)(3)bwq.jpyulopsbjltmltpyuloblt poucwqb.oqwtbyrwbspeiblkbyrw
iypywblkbDuiiuiiummubpoqb tpoywqbyphbwhwdmybiypy.ibgnbyrwbUoywtops
Twxwo.wbIwtxujwabYrwbKl.oqpyulo'ibWUObltbkwqwtpsbyphbuqwoyukujpyulo
o.dgwtbuib64-6221541abJloytug.yuloibylbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSuywtptn
PtjruxwbKl.oqpyulobptwbyphbqwq.jyugswbylbyrwbk.ssbwhywoybmwtduyywqbgn
.aIabkwqwtpsbspeibpoqbnl.tbiypyw'ibspeia

YrwbKl.oqpyulo'ibmtuojumpsblkkujwbuibuobKputgpofi,bPspifp,beuyrbyrw
dpusuo bpqqtwii:bMLbGlhb750175,bKputgpofi,bPFb99775,bg.ybuyi
xls.oywwtibpoqbwdmslnwwibptwbijpyywtwqbyrtl. rl.ybo.dwtl.i
sljpyuloiabUyibg.iuowiiblkkujwbuibsljpywqbpyb809bOltyrb1500bEwiy,bIpsy
SpfwbJuyn,b.Yb84116,b(801)b596-1887abWdpusbjloypjybsuofibpoqb.mbyl
qpywbjloypjybuokltdpyulobjpobgwbkl.oqbpybyrwbKl.oqpyulo'ibewgbiuywbpoq
lkkujupsbmp wbpybeeea .ywogwt alt /jloypjy

Kltbpqquyulopsbjloypjybuokltdpyulo:

bbbbQtab tw ltnbGabOwegn
bbbbJruwkbWhwj.yuxwbpoqbQutwjylt
bbbb gowegn@m spkalt 

Iwjyulob4abUokltdpyulobpgl.ybQlopyuloibylbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt 
SuywtptnbPtjruxwbKl.oqpyulo

Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbqwmwoqib.mlobpoqbjpoolybi.txuxwbeuyrl.ybeuqw
imtwpqbm.gsujbi.mmltybpoqbqlopyuloibylbjpttnbl.ybuyibduiiuloblk
uojtwpiuo byrwbo.dgwtblkbm.gsujbqldpuobpoqbsujwoiwqbeltfibyrpybjpobgw
ktwwsnbquiytug.ywqbuobdpjruowbtwpqpgswbkltdbpjjwiiugswbgnbyrwbeuqwiy
pttpnblkbwz.umdwoybuojs.quo bl.yqpywqbwz.umdwoyabDponbidpssbqlopyuloi
($1bylb$5,000)bptwbmptyuj.sptsnbudmltypoybylbdpuoypuouo byphbwhwdmy
iypy.ibeuyrbyrwbUTIa

YrwbKl.oqpyulobuibjldduyywqbylbjldmsnuo beuyrbyrwbspeibtw .spyuo 
jrptuyuwibpoqbjrptuypgswbqlopyuloibuobpssb50biypywiblkbyrwb.ouywq
IypywiabJldmsupojwbtwz.utwdwoyibptwbolyb.oukltdbpoqbuybypfwibp
jloiuqwtpgswbwkklty,bd.jrbmpmwteltfbpoqbdponbkwwibylbdwwybpoqbfwwmb.m
euyrbyrwiwbtwz.utwdwoyiabEwbqlbolybilsujuybqlopyuloibuobsljpyuloi
erwtwbewbrpxwbolybtwjwuxwqbetuyywobjlokutdpyuloblkbjldmsupojwabYlbIWOQ
QLOPYULOIbltbqwywtduowbyrwbiypy.iblkbjldmsupojwbkltbponbmptyuj.spt
iypywbxuiuybeeea .ywogwt alt /qlopyw

Eruswbewbjpoolybpoqbqlbolybilsujuybjloytug.yuloibktldbiypywiberwtwbew
rpxwbolybdwybyrwbilsujuypyulobtwz.utwdwoyi,bewbfoleblkbolbmtlruguyulo
p puoiybpjjwmyuo b.oilsujuywqbqlopyuloibktldbqloltibuobi.jrbiypywiberl
pmmtlpjrb.ibeuyrblkkwtibylbqlopywa

Uoywtopyulopsbqlopyuloibptwb tpywk.ssnbpjjwmywq,bg.ybewbjpoolybdpfw
ponbiypywdwoyibjlojwtouo byphbytwpydwoyblkbqlopyuloibtwjwuxwqbktld
l.yiuqwbyrwb.ouywqbIypywiab.aIabspeibpslowbiepdmbl.tbidpssbiypkka

MswpiwbjrwjfbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bEwgbmp wibkltbj.ttwoybqlopyulo
dwyrlqibpoqbpqqtwiiwiabQlopyuloibptwbpjjwmywqbuobpbo.dgwtblkblyrwt
epnibuojs.quo bjrwjfi,blosuowbmpndwoyibpoqbjtwquybjptqbqlopyuloiabYl
qlopyw,bmswpiwbxuiuy:beeea .ywogwt alt /qlopyw

Iwjyulob5ab wowtpsbUokltdpyulobPgl.ybMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwswjytloujbeltfia

MtlkwiiltbDujrpwsbIabRptybepibyrwbltu uopyltblkbyrwbMtlvwjy
 .ywogwt -ydbjlojwmyblkbpbsugtptnblkbwswjytloujbeltfibyrpybjl.sqbgw
ktwwsnbirptwqbeuyrbponlowabKltbkltynbnwpti,brwbmtlq.jwqbpoq
quiytug.ywqbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwGllfibeuyrblosnbpbslliwbowyeltfblk
xls.oywwtbi.mmltya

Mtlvwjyb .ywogwt -ydbwGllfibptwblkywobjtwpywqbktldbiwxwtpsbmtuoywq
wquyuloi,bpssblkberujrbptwbjlokutdwqbpibolybmtlywjywqbgnbjlmntu rybuo
yrwb.aIab.oswiibpbjlmntu rybolyujwbuibuojs.qwqabYr.i,bewbqlboly
owjwiiptusnbfwwmbwGllfibuobjldmsupojwbeuyrbponbmptyuj.sptbmpmwt
wquyuloa

Dliybmwlmswbiyptybpybl.tbEwgbiuywberujrbrpibyrwbdpuobM biwptjr
kpjusuyn:beeea .ywogwt alt 

YruibEwgbiuywbuojs.qwibuokltdpyulobpgl.ybMtlvwjyb .ywogwt -yd,
uojs.quo brlebylbdpfwbqlopyuloibylbyrwbMtlvwjyb .ywogwt bSuywtptn
PtjruxwbKl.oqpyulo,brlebylbrwsmbmtlq.jwbl.tbowebwGllfi,bpoqbrlebyl
i.gijtugwbylbl.tbwdpusboweiswyywtbylbrwptbpgl.ybowebwGllfia

